In another revelation, it has been found that over 4,361 habitations in the State do not have access to secondary education. The Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) Karnataka which is formed to improve access, quality and equity by providing access to secondary and higher secondary schooling within reasonable distance through improved facilities have not ensured that several habitations get proper access to secondary education. In the recently released report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (General and Social Sector for the year ended March 2018), the report said that in order to improve access, the Perspective Plan of Karnataka envisaged that secondary and higher secondary schools to be within a reasonable distance. It said that however, as at the end of March 2018, 4,361 habitations did not have access to secondary education. In addition, the perspective plan had envisaged realigning the structure of school education with the national level pattern by 2017 but the higher secondary continued to be under the Pre-University Board. Hence, both the targets were not achieved. The report stated that “RMSA had not maintained either the list of all the habitations in the State or the habitations with secondary schools. Hence, the audit could not access whether all the habitations had secondary schooling within five kms. From the information furnished by RMSA to audit, we noticed that as at the end of 2010-11 and 2017-18, 11,609 and 4,361 habitations respectively did not have access to secondary education within five kms.” Though the habitations without access to secondary education had decreased from 11,609 to 4,361, the target as per the Perspective Plan of Karnataka was not achieved. Further, analysis of the data showed that RMSA had accelerated its pace in providing secondary education during initial years of implementation of the RMSA and thereafter the pace had almost stagnated. The report also said that due to non-availability of the list of habitations with secondary schools, an audit could not verify the veracity of information on habitations produced to audit.