All-Elite Wrestling has gotten off to a strong start since it debut on TNT in October as a weekly episodic program. One of the things AEW has done well is showcase a good portion of its roster. Expect to see more of that at Full Gear, the promotion’s next pay-per-view.It’s coming up on Saturday and here’s how you can watch.
The Draw
According to ListenFirst, a social media analytics firm, AEW’s ability to share the focus of their programming and marketing on a variety of talent has helped to sustain a healthy level of interest on social media.
“Nearly a month after All Elite Wrestling: Dynamite debuted on TNT, the initial response has indicated the show is having staying power on social media,” said Tracy David, Chief Marketing Officer at ListenFirst. “Between October 2-31, 2019 the top performing social media video for Dynamite was a barbed wire fight between The Moxley and Omega on Facebook which generated 2,996,751 video views. That's noteworthy because the clip was uploaded on October 17, meaning the social media audience that sampled the first episode has been sticking around. Combined with the fact that the top two performing Dynamite social media videos in the last week were from The Lucha Brothers and SCU fight, as opposed to footage of a more established star like Chris Jericho, is a great sign that Dynamite is starting to develop homegrown stars."
Having fans interested in several storylines helps to increase engagement. AEW has done great work promoting and showcasing its exciting tag-team division. The SCU (C) vs. Private Party vs. The Lucha Brothers – AEW Tag Team Championship match will almost certainly pique fan interest.
That said, the biggest draw on the card will be the AEW Championship match between champion Chris Jericho and Cody. Both men have proven to be capable of top-notch storytelling while still delivering in the ring. Take a listen to this monumental promo from Cody.
Their main event match should be epic.
Here is a look at the entire of the card:
With three titles on the line and a number of other intriguing angles and some likely surprises, Full Gear is set up to be another strong brick in the house AEW is building.