Amazon's Alexa just celebrated its fifth birthday the other day.  Alexa has evolved from being essentially a hands-free gimmick to become one of the most advanced virtual assistants on the market. Just look at the figures. In 2016, Alexa could only respond to around 4,000 commands. By 2017, that number had increased to 35,000. Alexa is picking up new skills and vocabulary faster than a human four-year-old, at this rate!The number of tasks Alexa can accomplish is only going to continue to grow and expand at an increasing rate as smart technology becomes more evolved. The number of products powered by Amazon Alexa is growing right along with it. To help increase your arsenal of smart products, we've compiled a list of the best deals on Amazon Alexa-enabled products.
Belkin has long made some of the better smart devices on the market, and the Belkin WeMo Mini is an excellent example of that. The WeMo Mini could even save you money. It’s a pretty simple device, essentially converting your power outlet into a smart power outlet. With that, you can then control your devices through Alexa — as well as through other smart assistants, if you so choose.
The WeMo Mini works anywhere your Alexa devices do, so as long as you have an Alexa enabled device, you can easily control your smart switches. Safe to say, the WeMo Mini is a great way to turn your older dumb appliances into smart ones.
Normally, the device comes at $35, but you can get it straight from Amazon for an impressive $21.95.
Utilities can be expensive, especially when it's cold outside. It's not necessarily a sign of 'adulting' to get excited about saving money on utility bills without having to wear three pairs of socks around the house. The ecobee4 Smart Thermostat saves you up to 23 percent on your heating or cooling bills. The unit will pay for itself in two years or less. Those two years will be much more comfortable than you'd be otherwise, as well.
The ecobee4 comes with a room sensor to place in the most important rooms in the house. The smart thermostat will then regulate the other temperatures around that room instead of the other way around. You won't have to pay to heat the draftiest room in the house anymore! Not only is the ecobee4 good for your wallet, but it's also good for the environment as well. Saving energy is one of the simplest ways we can make a difference. It's best when you can save money at the same time! The ecobee4 is only $200 at the moment. That's a 16 percent savings from its usual $249 list price.
Do you wish you could make it seem like you were home, even when you weren’t? Philips Hue can help with that, plus take care of a whole lot more.
The Philips Hue range of products has become almost synonymous with smart lighting, allowing you to control your lights through your phone, with your voice, or even based on the status of other smart devices in your home. This particular kit comes with everything you need to get started too — it offers the main Philips Hue hub, which is the brain of the whole operation, along with four white bulbs, which can change in color temperature as you need.
Usually, the Philips Hue Starter Kit comes at $150, but it’s currently available for $95.88.
The Ring Video Doorbell is a great way to enhance your home’s security. The device essentially adds a security camera to your home, allowing you to record footage of whatever is happening outside the house, and even see a live feed from the camera straight from your smartphone or another mobile device.
So why would you want that? Well, for example, you’ll get a notification on your phone when the doorbell’s button is pressed — so you can talk to whoever is there without having to actually be at home. Plus, with the heightened security, you’ll never have to worry about porch thieves again.
The Video Doorbell Pro normally comes at $249, but it’s now available for $179 — which is $70 off its normal price.
Along with basic virtual assistant tasks like voice search, home security was one of the first areas to take advantage of smart technology. It also helps you make the most of your security, which means you barely have to use it, but still, know that it's there. After all, who has time to sit and monitor CCTV monitors like an overnight security guard? Instead, the EZVIA Mini lets you look when you need to. Just say the word, as the EZVIZ Mini O is equipped with Alexa and ready to take orders!
You can see things you wouldn't normally be able to, as well. The EZVIZ features night vision and full 111-degree rotation, to see as much of the scene as possible. You can even look while you're away, as the EZVIZ can be monitored wherever you are, via the included app. You'll be the only one who can, however. The EZVIZ Mini O's video feed is entirely secure, featuring end-to-end video encryption and multilayer security.
You have plenty of storage options to choose from if you don't feel like monitoring remotely. The EZVIZ Mini O comes equipped with a cloud storage option, with one month free to try out the plan. It also has a slot for a microSD card capable of storing up to 128GB. All of this for only $30, a $10 savings!
If you've been holding off, this could be the year you finally get connected with smart home technology. It's finally reached the tipping point where it's gone past a fad and has become a part of the fabric of daily life. Here's your chance to check out some of the best Alexa-enabled tech currently on the market while it's still affordable!
Shop Now
The Holiday deals are starting to come fast and furious, even in the first week of November! Whether you're looking to keep tabs on the latest Amazon Electra-equipped products, or looking for thorough product guides, we'll be bringing you extensive Black Friday coverage, each and every day.
Sign up for a Forbes blog account today, follow the blog, or subscribe to the RSS feed to keep up with the deals! hance!