Work on chemical synthesis for biomedical applications noticed A professor of the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) is one of the recipients of the Infosys Prize 2019. G Mugesh, a professor of the department of inorganic and physical chemistry, IISc, bagged the Infosys Prize in the Physical Sciences category. He has been awarded for his work on the chemical synthesis of small molecules and nanomaterials for biomedical applications. According to the foundation, his work has contributed to the understanding of the role of trace elements, selenium and iodine in thyroid hormone activation and metabolism, and this research has led to major medical advances. Mugesh said that he is overwhelmed by the award as he hails from a small village comprising about 20 houses and that his parents never went to school. “We will be working on two areas. One is developing compounds that can regulate cardiovascular diseases and the other is Alzheimers,” Mugesh said.
.
On Thursday, the foundation announced the winners of the Infosys Prize 2019 in six categories - Engineering and Computer Sciences, Humanities, Life Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Social Sciences. A panel of jurors comprising renowned scholars and professors shortlisted the winners of the award from 196 nominations. The prize for each category comprises a pure gold medal, a citation and a prize purse of $ 100,000 (or its equivalent in rupees). The other recipients are Sunita Sarawagi, institute chair professor, Computer Science and Engineering, IIT, Bombay (Engineering and Computer Science), Manu V Devadevan, assistant professor, School of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT, Mandi (Humanities), Manjula Reddy chief scientist, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad (Life Sciences), Siddhartha Mishra, professor, Department of Mathematics, ETH Zürich (Mathematical Sciences), Anand Pandian, professor, Department of Anthropology, Krieger School of Arts & Sciences, Johns Hopkins University (Social Sciences). S D Shibulal, co-founder of Infosys Limited and President of the Infosys Science Foundation, said, “The Infosys Prize continues to recognise exemplary work in scientific research and enquiry.”