Parrots throw perfectly good food onto the floor because that’s what parrots do, according to a new study
If you live with parrots, like me, then you spend a significant amount of money and time seeking out and buying a variety of fresh vegetables, fruits, nuts and seeds for your feathered friends. Unfortunately, you also spend a lot of time cleaning up after they’ve thrown this bounty onto the floor and walls. Why are parrots such slobs?
The authors of a recent study wondered the same thing after observing wild parrots wasting fruits, flowers and seeds that appeared to be perfectly delicious. They also noticed that wild parrots sometimes would eat a bite or two before dropping their tasty morsels. Wasting edible food just doesn’t make sense, so why do parrots squander this important resource?
To understand why parrots are so wasteful, conservation biologist and ecologist Esther Sebastián-González, a postdoctoral fellow at Miguel Hernández University in Spain, and an international team of collaborators identified a number of hypotheses that may explain parrots’ food wasting behaviors (ref). These hypotheses broadly fall into two categories. First, wasting food may be an accident (PDF). For example, larger fruits are more likely to be dropped than smaller ones. Other explanations include dropping a food item whilst arguing with another parrot, or as the result of some other sort of disturbance because larger groups of parrots generally waste more food than smaller groups. An evolutionary unfamiliarity with a particular food item is also a possible explanation if fruits from exotic plants are more likely to be wasted than those produced by native plants.
On the other hand, parrots may intentionally waste food: unripe or parasitized fruits (ref), or those with a low nutritional or energetic content may be more likely to be wasted (ref). If parrots intentionally waste food, one would presume that they alter their behavior when food becomes scarce or when it is particularly valuable, such as when they are raising chicks.
To test these different ideas, Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators spent several years studying food waste in almost 30% of all parrot species. They also looked for food waste in controlled situations with captive parrots because following individual wild parrots through tropical forests is very challenging.
Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators found that the most commonly wasted foods are fruits and seeds (Figure 1) produced by 336 species of plants in 80 plant families, and that food waste occurs throughout the year where ever free-roaming parrots live (Figure 1).
Food waste was universal amongst parrots of the 103 species studied (40 species were studied in the experimental approach, 75 species were studied in the field and 12 species were observed in both the lab and the field). Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators found that every parrot in every study site (35 large biological communities in 17 countries on 5 continents) wasted food. Whether these parrots were wild, feral or naturalized, living in their native ranges or in new areas where people had introduced them, food rained down from the tree tops when parrots were present.
Parrots squandered food throughout the entire year, regardless of whether it was their breeding season or not. Further, parrots are equal opportunity food wasters: although they mainly dumped seeds and fruits, they also dropped flowers, leaves, twigs, stems, sprouts, parasites and bark. In some cases, the food waste was simply spectacular: some individual parrots were observed to drop as much as 80% of seeds and all of the fruits they picked.
Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators found that food thrown from trees by parrots benefits many animal species by making seeds and fruits readily available to them during a longer time frame than when food falls naturally (i.e; ref, ref & ref).
“Other species get access to food,” Dr. Sebastián-González explained in email. “For example, ground dwelling species which cannot climb are able to eat the wasted food. Also, as they also waste partially eaten fruits/seeds, these [foods] become smaller and are available for smaller species.”
Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators identified 86 species of birds, mammals, reptiles, fishes, and ants that ranged widely in body size (0.002–750 kg) that benefitted from parrots throwing food from the treetops. Further, wasted food is less likely to be rotten or dry, as is often the case when food naturally falls from trees.
Parrot food waste benefits plants, too.
“Plants get additional options of seed dispersal, increasing their chances of seed recruitment,” Dr. Sebastián-González added in email.
Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators found that 28 different animal species from 26 genera potentially acted as secondary dispersers of wasted fruits and seeds, including ants, birds, mammals and reptiles. These species ranged from very small to very large, and the average dispersal distances ranged from large (>30 m) to very large (>100 m).
Dr. Sebastián-González and her collaborators did identify some food waste patterns from their data that actually make sense. For example, parrots are more likely to drop unripe fruits than ripe ones, and they’re less wasteful when they are raising hungry chicks (Figure 3).
But how does this flagrant food waste benefit parrots themselves?
“Our best bet is that they are doing it to get better crops and during a longer time,” Dr. Sebastián-González elaborated in email. “In horticulture, it is widely known that large high-quality fruits can be obtained through fruit and flower pruning. Also, fruit and flower pruning reduce gaps between fructifications or reduce biennial bearing, so fruits are available for longer time periods. We could not test this, but hopefully we can do it in the future.”
But can parrots actually plan ahead for the next fruiting season? Well ... perhaps: several previous studies suggest that parrots may be intelligent enough to be capable of planning for the future (more here), although I personally think this idea stretches the boundaries of credibility. That said, food waste is a behavior that benefits parrots in some way, otherwise, it would not be evolutionarily maintained.
Meanwhile, what can an overworked parrot parent do to reduce her feathered companion’s food waste?
“Based on our study, I don’t think you can do much,” Dr. Sebastián-González replied.
Esther Sebastián-González, Fernando Hiraldo, Guillermo Blanco, Dailos Hernández-Brito, Pedro Romero-Vidal, Martina Carrete, Eduardo Gómez-Llanos, Erica C. Pacífico, José A. Díaz-Luque, Francisco V. Dénes & José L. Tella (2019). The extent, frequency and ecological functions of food wasting by parrots, Scientific Reports, 9:15280 | doi:10.1038/s41598-019-51430-3