Growing demand among destitute military veterans has a Calgary food bank at a crisis point, say those who operate it.
The Veterans Association Food Bank has only enough food supplies to carry the organization into the new year and is hoping stepped-up donations will make it past that, said spokeswoman Marie Blackburn.
“We’d have enough to get us through our Christmas hampers, but this is a time we use to collect for all the year,” said Blackburn.
“Our demand this year has just skyrocketed, and with the economy right now, it’s just kicking the crap out of everybody.”
Most badly needed are crackers, canned fruit, meat and seafood along with instant food mixes and toiletries, she said.
One item they’re well-stocked with is pasta sauce, though ingredients to combine with that would be welcome, said Blackburn.
The food bank, which began operating in October 2018 and whose client number has grown to 200, also requires cash donations that assist needy veterans in other ways while also keeping the charity operating, said Blackburn.
“We’re also helping a lot of people stay in their homes, with medications, rent bills,” she said. “We find they don’t have heat in their homes.”
Since last spring, the food bank has spent about $50,000 in cash donations to purchase food and help pay veterans’ bills.
Those associated with the food bank have even procured a donated used vehicle for a young family down on their luck, she said.
Military veteran Mike Nelson said he was introduced as a client at the food bank when he needed emotional support while battling PTSD.
He now helps other veterans with similar issues who are clients at the food bank.
“I came here for support to rebuild myself and now I’m able to give back to my brothers and sisters … this place has literally saved lives,” said Nelson, 49.
“There’s a lot more here than food, though that’s obviously important to fill bellies.”
Princess Patricia’s Canadian Light Infantry veteran Todd Gilman said when he exhausted his benefits, the food bank became a lifeline.
“I found myself in a very bad place with no food or money,” said Gilman.
“I was at the end of my rope, but then I reached out to the Veterans Association Food Bank.”
The food bank covered both his bills and food needs, he said.
Cash donations can be made online at veteransassociationfoodbank.ca while money and food can also be dropped off at the charity at Bay 10, 820 28th St. N.E.
BKaufmann@postmedia.com
on Twitter: @BillKaufmannjrn