The UFC is in Moscow on Saturday for UFC Fight Night 163. The main event of the card features a featherweight matchup between Zabit Magomedsharipov and Calvin Kattar. Magomedsharipov has been on fire since he joined the UFC in 2017. Currently the No. 5 ranked fighter in the official UFC 145-pound rankings, Magomedsharipov is 5-0 with the UFC with three post-fight bonus awards and three stoppages. His most recent win was a March unanimous decision victory over Jeremy Stephens. Kattar, who is the No. 11 ranked featherweight, is 4-1 in the UFC with one “Fight of the Night” bonus-winning victory. Kattar, who has three knockout wins with the promotion, is coming off a June knockout victory over former 145-pound title challenger Ricardo Lamas. In the co-main event, No. 7 ranked heavyweight Alexander Volkov faces Greg Hardy. Hardy stepped in as a late replacement for Junior dos Santos.
Before the six-fight main card, which streams on ESPN+, the UFC presents seven preliminary card bouts.
Early in the prelim card, Jessica-Rose Clark returns to action for the first time since she dropped a decision to Jessica Eye in June 2018. Clark underwent foot surgery after that loss. She faces Pannie Kianzad in Moscow. Kianzad is coming off a unanimous decision setback to Julia Avila in July. These two met in 2015 on an Invicta FC card. Kianzad won that matchup by unanimous decision.
Rustam Khabilov is also on the prelims. He faces Sergey Khandozhko in a welterweight scrap. Khabilov only fought once in 2017 and 2018. He brought a six-fight winning streak into his most recent fight, but that streak ended when he dropped a decision to Carlos Diego Ferreira. Khandozhko made his UFC debut in June. He defeated Rostem Akman by decision in that outing.
A light heavyweight bout between Magomed Ankalaev and Dalcha Lungiambula sits at the top of the prelim card. Ankalaev is 2-1 in the UFC, while Lungiambula is 1-0 with the promotion.
HOW TO WATCH OR STREAM UFC FIGHT NIGHT 163
UFC Fight Night 163 takes place Saturday at CSKA Arena in Moscow. The prelims begin at 11 a.m. ET on ESPN+, the main card follows on ESPN+ at 2:00 p.m. ET.
UFC Fight Night 163 Main Card (2:00 p.m. ET, ESPN+)
Zabit Magomedsharipov vs. Calvin Kattar
Alexander Volkov vs. Greg Hardy
Zelim Imadaev vs. Danny Roberts
Khadis Ibragimov vs. Ed Herman
Ramazan Emeev vs. Anthony Rocco Martin
Shamil Gamzatov vs. Klidson Abreu
Preliminary Card (11 a.m. ET. ESPN+)
Magomed Ankalaev vs. Dalcha Lungiambula
Rustam Khabilov vs. Sergey Khandozhko
Roman Kopylov vs. Karl Roberson
Abubakar Nurmagomedov vs. David Zawada
Alexander Yakovlev vs. Roosevelt Roberts
Pannie Kianzad vs. Jessica-Rose Clark
Grigorii Popov vs. Davey Grant
More From UFC Fight Night 163: