Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The Senate chief prober has credited star-ranked officers of the Philippine National Police (PNP) for testifying “against one of their own” in the ongoing Blue Ribbon inquiry into so-called ninja cops linked to irregularities.
“For the first time in the history of the Senate Blue Ribbon Committee, retired and active generals of the Philippine National Police testified against one of their fellow officials,” said Sen. Richard Gordon in sponsoring the committee report on their investigation of “ninja cops” linked to a raid conducted in Pampanga on November 29, 2013.
At the time of the raid, Gen. Oscar Albayalde, the immediate past PNP chief was still the provincial director, and allegedly worked behind the scene to play down the cases against his subordinates when these were investigated for recyling seized drugs.
“Never in the annals of the history of the Blue Ribbon,” said Gordon,  “have eight generals come to witness against their fellow officer —Oscar Albayalde.”
Gordon continued: “They all came out and seem to point out to a very serious injury to the PNP and that is, there was a dereliction of duty on the part of Albayalde unless it could be proven, as we have proven, that this was a whole conspiracy of sorts that allowed these people, led by a certain Major [Rodney] Baloyo who was the intelligence officer of Albayalde, to perpetrate their ill will upon us.”
The senator was referring to retired police general-now-Baguio City Mayor Benjamin Magalong, who was then chief of the PNP-Criminal Investigation and Detection Group (PNP-CIDG). Magalong joined seven other generals who testified during the investigation in connection with Magalong’s disclosure that the police team who conducted the said raid were engaged in drug recycling or the so-called agaw-bato.
In a statement, Gordon also cited other generals who testified: Gen. Alan Purisima, then-PNP chief; Gen. Raul Petrasanta, then- PNP Region III director; Gen. Aaron Aquino, who was also appointed as Pampanga provincial director; Gen. Rudy Lacadin, then-PNP-CIDG deputy director; Gen. Graciano Mijares, then-head of the Personnel Holding and Accounting Unit; Gen. Manuel Gaerlan, who investigated the anomalous operation; and Gen. Albert Ignatius Ferro, director of the PNP-Drug Enforcement Group, who also made a report on the operation.
Blue Ribbon probers had originally invited Magalong to testify at the joint probe conducted by the Committees on Justice and Human Rights and the Accountability of Public Officers and Investigations (Blue Ribbon) on the “abusive implementation of the good conduct time allowance [GCTA] law, which then expanded to the anomalies in the New Bilibid Prison.
Gordon recalled that during the hearing, Magalong referred to the so-called agaw-bato practiced by police officers, and subsequently made further disclosures about the issue in an executive session, which prompted the investigation into the alleged ninja cops.
The senator said Magalong’s testimony “was really an earth-shaking revelation,” adding: “I have to admire this PMA graduate who dared to speak up against his fellow PMA alumnus. And that is very, very rare indeed…. Napakalaki pong risk ang ginawa ni General Magalong. Ang kostumbre natin ay ayaw nating ipapahiya ang kasama natin hangga’t maaari [Normally, we’d rather not embarrass a colleague as much as possible]. Obviously, he’s standing up for justice.”