For Australian beauty and grooming label Aesop, a boutique isn’t just a boutique, it's a chance to showcase the work of great architectural talent around the world. Aesop (Rizzoli), a new linen-bound tome dedicated to the brand’s unique and visionary store design, packaging and creative direction, has just been published and the book is as artful as the brand’s products and stores. Photographed by Yutaka Yamamoto, the publication charts the brand’s early days from its launch in 1987 to its first Melbourne store and worldwide store evolution from America to Brazil, Japan and Norway. The brand has made it a point to collaborate with the world’s top design talents like Master Studio in Cape Town, Snøhetta in London, Singapore and Oslo and Fernando and Humberto Campana in São Paulo so no two stores are alike. On the occasion of the book’s publication and the new Aesop Piccadilly boutique in London, we spoke with the brand’s creative director Marsha Meredith and retail architecture manager Denise Neri about Aesop’s unique approach to retail design.
Your brand has such a distinct approach to retail hospitality. Why is architecture so integral to Aesop's ethos?
Marsha: “From our earliest days, we’ve sought to create spaces in which customers feel comfortable to engage in unhurried conversations, and a refuge from sensory clutter. Traditional retail tends to overstimulate, with loud music, bright lights and a frenzied pace. So there are certain consistencies—natural or muted lighting, interesting but unobtrusive music, a place to sit, a sink for hands-on product demonstrations, and so on—among Aesop spaces around the world, which all derive from simple ideas of hospitality. From a design perspective, we’ve always operated with the belief that a new store should fit within the existing neighborhood.”
You work with both young and established architects. Is that a conscious choice?
Denise: “From Jakob Sprenger in Vienna, whose thought is mature beyond his tender years, to Paulo Mendes da Rocha the Brazilian modernist master, collaboration with our design team takes different forms. The newly opened opened Aesop Piccadilly, created in collaboration with film director Luca Guadagnino, has been another joyful recent partnership.”
How do the products' packaging help further this approach?
Marsha: “Our packaging has changed very little in three decades. The visual logic is similar to how we approach our stores and offices: evicting all peripheral or unnecessary information. The most important thing is what’s inside the jar or bottle or tube. The labels are clear and legible; the vessels are simple and functional, and don’t skew toward particular genders or age brackets. We’ve always avoided cosmetic industry vocabulary and unfounded claims; we want to communicate honestly, and to respect people’s intelligence.”
What's the process like after choosing to open a new store?
Denise: “We seek to understand the area, the neighbors and local character–this informs our architectural approach and overall feeling. We also aim to add something of value to the local community. This can be as simple as a drinking fountain, dog bowls in front of the store, or the seating bench outside our Copenhagen store. We give our architects a detailed brief as a starting point but it’s very much a collaborative process as the design is discussed and developed together. We like to retain any existing features of merit and use local materials wherever possible.”
Is there an in-house design team at Aesop too or do you just work with outside talent?
Denise: “It’s a balance of both. We are lucky to have a very talented in-house team making strong work who bring diverse input. Each project is different, so we consider both in-house and external architects in relation to particular skills, physical location, availability and the wider context. External architects offer us a fresh perspective and connect us to broader architectural thought and discourse. Our talented internal team has the benefit of shared experience and an intimate understanding of the company that is almost impossible to attain externally.”
What materials do you and your design partners like to use most and why?
Denise: “Materials are always chosen to respond to the particular site and context. We want them to be simple, durable and beautiful and with as few materials used in combination as possible. We use single source materials and avoid synthetic or processed compounds. Quiet, monochromatic interiors with layered textures within a restricted palette shape the materials choice in most cases.”
How did you discover Mexican architect Frida Escobedo, who you have worked with several times?
Denise: “We asked Frida to design a pop-up store located within The Invisible Dog art gallery in Brooklyn. We were looking for an architect who could work on a more conceptual level and propose an original and intriguing idea. It was Frida’s first retail project and from there we commissioned her for spaces in Miami, Chicago and another in Brooklyn. What’s special about Frida is her ability to play with materials and completely re-invent the approach for each space. Her architecture always tells a story and is truly responsive to context.”
Do you have a favorite store?
Marsha: “Aesop Nolita holds special significance as the first permanent store we opened in the United States. Its walls are made from stacked copies of The New York Times, and there is something very poignant about the way the newspaper softens and ages over the years, like a physical record of time.”