It's long been suggested that the foods we crave are the foods we need; that cravings are our body's way of subconsciously addressing a nutritional deficiency or need.
Under this theory, that chocolate you had a hankering for on Thursday afternoon could be a sign of magnesium deficiency. And the steak you had to have for dinner last night suggests you're low in iron.
But since most of the foods we lust after aren't particularly nutritious, how much can we trust our — pardon the pun — gut instincts?
Food cravings are common, though not terribly well understood, in part because they're so subjective. Research suggests they're experienced more commonly by women than men, and that in the West, chocolate is the most widely craved food.
Comfort foods can make us feel good. But why? And why do we want them in winter and not in summer?
While some say when your body lacks a nutrient, it naturally craves food replete in that nutrient, gastroenterologist Vincent Ho says that's unlikely.
"In the vast majority of cases, there is no truth to the theory that food cravings are due to the body's effort to correct any underlying nutritional deficiency," said Dr Ho from Western Sydney University.
There is one possible (albeit rare) exception: a disorder called pica.
"Pica is an unusual behaviour where people crave these sort of exotic, non-food substances ... they can eat dirt or ice, and that can come about because of micronutrient deficiencies," Dr Ho said.
Pica is most common in children and pregnant women, and while its exact cause is unknown, micronutrient deficiencies (like zinc or iron) are thought to play a role.
That we tend to crave foods laden with sugar, salt and fat — is a good indication that cravings probably aren't the body's way of trying to rectify nutritional deficiencies.
Let's take chocolate as an example — and the idea that craving it could be a sign of magnesium deficiency.
If that was the case, it would make much more sense for our body to crave nutritious whole foods that are rich in magnesium like spinach, nuts or beans. But we rarely do.
Similarly, it's been argued that we crave chocolate because it contains phenylethylamine, a neurotransmitter that triggers the release of dopamine and serotonin (which play a role in pleasure and wellbeing).
If this were true, it would make more sense for us to have a hankering for cheese or salami, which both contain more phenylethylamine.
Cravings don't appear to be driven by the foods we restrict from out diet, either.
Hated coffee as a kid and love it now? Here's what's happening in your mouth.
"When we look at people who have undergone a diet where they have a significant calorie restriction, we find that that actually decreases food cravings, rather than increase as you might expect," Dr Ho said.
One study that placed adults on a low-carbohydrate or low-fat diet for two years found those who cut back on carbs craved them significantly less, and those who reduced their fat intake experienced marked decreases in cravings for high-fat foods.
If cravings were the result of depleted or missing nutrients, we would expect to see the opposite effect.
"One of the most effective ways to curb cravings is actually to cut back craved foods from our diets," Dr Ho said.
The mechanism behind food cravings is complex, and likely to be a combination of psychological, social and biological factors.
Dr Ho said the famous 'Pavlov's Dog' study, in which dogs were conditioned to salivate to the sound of a bell (in anticipation of food), could help to explain how food cravings were often triggered by external cues.
Many of us tend to reach for a sweet snack in the afternoon, for example, or while watching TV. There is a sense of habit-forming or learned behaviour when it comes to what we eat.
"What we know is that certain foods tend to be paired with different stimuli, depending upon the situation," Dr Ho said.
"It's that association that's triggering food cravings."
To reduce a food craving, Dr Ho said it was important to reduce your exposure to that food. But he admitted that was challenging in a world where we are constantly confronted by it.
"In Western cultures in particular ... there are a lot of avenues by which we can get a triggering of food cravings, typically through the site or smell of food," Dr Ho said.
Evidence also suggests food cravings are linked to emotional states. A UK study found that people who craved food were more likely to be bored or anxious during the day and to experience a depressed mood immediately before cravings.
We know our brains are hardwired to seek out junk foods because they activate neural reward circuits and release dopamine.
Tracy Burrows, an associate professor of nutrition and dietetics at the University of Newcastle, said these reward pathways were important in understanding emotional eating and food addiction.
"There is a subset of vulnerable individuals who appear to have different pathways, and they make them more susceptible to cravings," Dr Burrows said.
Do you have a burning question about health or sustainable living you have always wanted to know the answer to? Get in touch via burningquestion@abc.net.au and we can take your question to the experts.
Cultural influences are important too.
While chocolate is the most commonly reported craving in Australia and North America, Dr Ho said research showed very few people in Egypt, for example, were likely to experience similar cravings. He also pointed to research that found Japanese women were more likely to crave traditional foods like rice and sushi.
"Only two thirds of languages have an actual definition for food cravings … which is not to say there are not food cravings — it's just to say the social component behind it is very important."
When it comes to other biological factors, Dr Ho says there is emerging evidence that our gut microbes can affect our cravings.
"If there's an imbalance of the microbiota that can affect food cravings, because some bacteria tend to prefer different environments and different types of foods."
Intense (and often strange) food cravings are one of the hallmarks of pregnancy. While it has been suggested such cravings are related to the hormonal changes, the jury is still out.
Some research published in 2014 suggests cultural and psychosocial factors are more important determinants. The same hypothesis has been applied to cravings associated with menstruation.
Want more science — plus health, environment, tech and more? Subscribe to our channel.
Food cravings, especially for chocolate, are one of the most common symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and research shows women tend to eat more during the second half of their cycle.
"One idea is that women are unconsciously using food as a pharmacological therapy," Sara Twogood, an assistant professor at the University of Southern California, wrote for The Conversation in June.
"Eating carbs turns up levels of serotonin … By increasing carb intake, women may be self-medicating with food to cause that serotonin bump in order to feel better."
Another possible explanation, Dr Twogood writes, is that women turn to food for physical or psychological comfort, in the same way people might turn to food in times of stress — to mitigate unpleasant feelings.
It's almost certainly cultural, too. Researchers in the US have argued that women may associate chocolate with menstruation because it's the only time they feel it's culturally acceptable to eat otherwise "forbidden" food.