The biggest barrier to entry for most MMORPGs, other than the presumed time sink they usually devolve into, is the cost. Games like World of Warcraft and Final Fantasy XIV have hefty monthly subscriptions that result in players spending upwards of $100 per year just to keep playing the game. That’s where free trials come in.While Elder Scrolls Online does not have a mandatory subscription fee at all (it does offer ESO Plus, which is an optional subscription with a bunch of convenience perks) it does still have an upfront price tag like most other AAA games. But right now, up until November 13th at 7AM PT, that price tag is gone as anyone can download and play the base, standard ESO game entirely for free on all platforms.
The trial content includes the original main quest storyline, the four classes ESO launched with (Nightblade, Sorcerer, Templar, and Dragonknight) across 23 zones. It will also include the Morrowind zone and story, which was the first major expansion for the game, but it will not include access to the Warden class. This trial version also will not include access to the other major expansions, Summerset and Elsweyr, nor will it include access to any of the several DLC zones and DLC dungeons.
Out of all the MMOs on the market, ESO is undoubtedly one of the most accessible ones out there. If you’re familiar with the core Elder Scrolls single player games then there is a lot of familiar lore across dozens of familiar zones to enjoy. But even if you’re new to the series it does a good job of teaching you as you play. Much of the game can be played solo if you’d like, but it’s also got an active, friendly, and nurturing community that’s tons of fun to interact with.
The latest DLC that just released, Dragonhold, is packed full of epic dragon fights and a modestly sized new zone that expands access to the southern region of Elsweyr:
You can try out Elder Scrolls Online by picking your platform of choice (PC/Mac client, PC/Mac on Steam, PS4, or Xbox One) over on the Free Play page for ESO. Then if you decide you like it enough to buy it, you can do that for 50% off. The discount is active until the Free Play ends on PS4, up until November 13th, but will remain discounted on all other platforms until December 2nd at 7AM PT.