Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
THE House Deputy Speaker for Finance on Thursday asked the Senate to support P9.5 billion in “institutional amendments” made by the lower chamber in the proposed P4.1-trillion General Appropriations Act (GAA).
The institutional amendments cover infrastructure, agriculture, education and health care. Deputy Speaker for Finance Luis Raymund Villafuerte again made the appeal to the Senate, saying the increase in the budget of these sectors will stimulate the economy.
“The House proposed institutional amendments covering the sectors of infrastructure, agriculture, education and health care in its approved version of the 2020 GAA,” Villafuerte said in a statement.
“We hope the Senate will also adopt these amendments to provide additional funding for these sectors, which will help further rev up the economy and sustain its high growth rate next year,” he added.
Villafuerte said strong economic growth powered by higher state spending and low inflation will help insulate the Philippines from global headwinds, such as the United States-China trade war, Brexit and climate change.
Increasing the budget for infrastructure, agriculture, education and health care will complement the resolve of the Senate and the House to avoid a repeat of the 2019 budget delay by speeding up deliberation and approval of 2020 GAA.
The House approved its GAA version in September, before the monthlong congressional break, while Senate leaders have committed to fast-track plenary deliberations on the budget bill this month in time for its approval by December.
Villafuerte said the only amendments made by the House to the proposed budget involved P9.5 billion in funds that were realigned to various government agencies.
Among these, he said, was the agriculture sector, where P3.5 billion was allocated through the Department of Agriculture (DA) to enable it to buy more palay from farmers and to set up a quick-response fund.
The Department of Education will also get an additional P800 million for the operation of schools from Kinder to Grade 12, and establishment of model day-care centers nationwide.
The Philippine General Hospital (PGH) got an additional P500 million, while the Dangerous Drugs Board (DDB) received P250 million for the maintenance and other operating expenses of community-based rehabilitation centers.
Other beneficiaries of realigned funds were:
■ Department of Health (P100 million to augment funds of the National Center for Mental Health and another P100 million for quick response fund);
■ Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines (which received P1 billion for their camp development funds);
■ Department of Environment and Natural Resources (P500 million for its National Resource Conservation and Development-Protected Areas and Development Management Program);
■  Department of Transportation (P274.95 million for the operating expenses of the Davao International Airport);
■ National Electrification Administration (P500 million for its sitio electrification program);
■ Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (P500 million for the special allowances of traffic enforcers and field personnel and salary increases of 4,000 job order personnel); and
■ Philippine Sports Commission (P500 million for the preparation and training of athletes for 2020 Olympic Games and 10th Asean Para Games).
Speaker Alan Peter Cayetano urged the Senate to approve on third and final reading the 2020 budget this month for them to start the bicameral conference committee by the first week of December.
Also, Cayetano said he will consult first the House members on whether to open to media coverage the bicameral conference committee hearing on the 2020 national budget, as proposed by Sen. Panfilo Lacson.
“We are talking about governance here. We are talking about getting things done here. We can’t always be playing to the gallery or playing to the media,” he said. Congress is eyeing to submit the 2020 national budget to President Duterte for signature on December 20.