Germany’s largest airline has canceled a staggering 1,300 flights over 48 hours starting on November 7, leaving as many as 180,000 passengers stranded. Lufthansa’s flight attendant union, named UFO, said that labor negotiations with the airline had not progressed, which has led to industrial action.
Such was the volume of customers scrambling to rebook flights, the airline's website was experiencing technical difficulties last night. Previously, Lufthansa pilots went on strike an eye-watering 14 times before reaching a deal with the airline in 2017.
No passenger wants to hear that their airline is striking, and many will be frustrated by having their travel plans thrown into disarray. However, some passengers support airline employees who take to the picket lines, whereas others will support the airline and call certain staff greedy.
This year has seen several major airlines taking strike action. British Airways experienced several days of pilot strike action over their pay. Striking by unions is often the ultimate course of action when negotiations have broken down, but with so many airlines going bankrupt over the last few years around the world, are some employees and unions asking airlines for too much?
Many pilots at British Airways who went on strike earlier this year are earning six-figure salaries and turned down what could be seen as a generous 11.5% pay increase from the airline over three years—especially if you are a flight attendant, who are rarely seeing such inflation-beating pay-rise offers themselves.
Now the issue with legacy carriers such as British Airways and Lufthansa is that they have longstanding liabilities, which include pensions and an ever-growing union to contend with. When union officials turn around and claim that an airline is “doing well” after strong financial results, which has been the case for British Airways owner IAG over the last 12 months particularly, there are several factors that are being unaccounted for.
Firstly, pilots are the most well-paid employees in an airline’s operations away from corporate, and there is a very strong argument that flight attendants are paid a relatively underwhelming amount. An offer, in the case of British Airways recently to pilots, of 11.5% (on already six-figure salaries) is overwhelmingly above inflation, and by any means, or sector, is generous. The unions will likely be claiming they won’t come back to the table for several years if the airline were to cave to their offer, however, at the end of the day, an airline is one of the most difficult businesses to run.
A single good year does not mean that next year will be the same or better. If anything could go wrong for an airline, then it can. Inclement weather, volatile fuel prices, strikes that are out of their control from airport to air traffic control strikes, maintenance issues, even issues such as that with Boeing and the 737 MAX for many airlines around the world. Importantly, the cyclicality of the economy.
Currently, the economy is cooling globally. A consumer debt bubble is continuing to expand and by most metrics, we are reaching to the top of the current cycle. Germany is teetering on the edge of recession and in a contracting economy, the leisure sector and airlines in particularly hurt, and they hurt badly.
For an airline to accept that it has had a couple of “strong years” and hand out generous pay rises, to already fairly paid staff members (pilots) is a simple lack of basic economic understanding. The British Airways pilot strikes led to nearly 1,700 flight cancelations, but it could be argued flight attendants have a much stronger case for pay rises.
I previously wrote about flight attendants being underpaid, and the key issue is for unions to understand the volatility of the industry when pushing airlines and passengers to the brink.
In the U.S. pilot strikes are practically illegal after the Railway Labor Act classified aviation as an essential economic function. Dependent on seniority and aircraft type, many pilots that work for the major three U.S. carriers of United, American and Delta earn above $150,000 per year, whereas many flight attendants are living close to the food stamp qualification threshold.
In Europe, low-cost carriers have meant huge competition for airlines, and although there may have been a few steady years of growth for the likes of British Airways and Lufthansa, both airlines, along with many others, still sit on a huge pile of debt.
If select greedy members of unions would like to see more collapsing airlines over the next five years as the economy softens, then unreasonable pay demands will certainly expedite that process. It may be better served to accept reasonable offers and understand that many airline employees who are less generously paid—mainly flight attendants—are likely in a better position to make such demands of necessary pay increases.
Simple economics dictates that with so many airlines coming close to the brink of bankruptcy after the financial crisis of 2008, when the economy continues to turn on a downward trend, having unreasonably larger cost bases that were agreed during “good years” could well prove to send more airlines into bankruptcy in years to come.