“The perfect car doesn’t exi…”
But it really doesn’t. Luxury automaker Jaguar has unveiled the Jaguar Vision Gran Turismo Coupé, its first-ever virtual all-electric sports car. The experimental vehicle encapsulates the “truly limitless” ideas of designers at Jaguar as well as its heritage. The Vision Gran Turismo Coupé isn’t a real car, and as its name suggests, will only exist in Sony PlayStation 4’s Gran Turismo Sport game. The exclusion of physical limitations meant designers could imagine a hypercar from the ground up with “complete creative freedom,” Jaguar explains in a press release. The futuristic all-electric, all-wheel concept combines the designs of Jaguar’s C-type and D-type race cars, and is built with three powerful motors producing 750 kW. Drivers in the game will be able to race at 100km/h (62mph) in under two seconds. It also has an unreal sheen and perfect proportions, as well as weighs just 1,400kg (3,086lb) with an almost 50:50 weight distribution. This is all thanks to its makeup of experimental lightweight materials like advanced aluminum alloys and airy but stiff monocoque from carbon-fiber composites. Jaguar’s young designers had full control over the project, says design director Julian Thomson, who describes it as a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for them to create a vehicle steeped in our incredible heritage but pushing the boundaries of future design.” “The team have done an incredible job in creating something which is clearly identifiable as a Jaguar, inspired—but not constrained—by our iconic past.” Advertisement Advertisement The electric vehicle’s interior also intertwines Jaguar’s heritage with its interior design ethos of “progressive luxury, purity, driver focus, and stunningly intricate details” while remaining simplistic, Jaguar adds. “We’ve really pushed the limit to imagine how a future Jaguar sports car interior could look,” Jaguar Advanced Design’s interior designer Chris Shaw explains. “The architecture is visually lightweight, simple, and dramatic; featuring advanced and experimental materials and finishes.” Players will be “fully immersed in the action” with the “unmistakably Jaguar” design, Shaw elaborates. Gamers can give the car a test drive and more in end November 2019, when it will be available for download in Sony PlayStation 4’s Gran Turismo Sport.
[via Gulf News, video and images via Jaguar]