In the opening week of the 2019-20 season, North Carolina freshman point guard Cole Anthony dropped an ACC freshman record 34 points on Notre Dame, appears equipped to contend for national Player of the Year and push the Tar Heels toward their 21st Final Four. Perennial powers Michigan State, Kentucky, Kansas and Duke - the top four teams in the inaugural USA Today Coaches Poll - met at the mecca, Madison Square Garden for the Champions Classic. While each team has ample room to grow between now in March expect all four to fight for No. 1 seeds in the NCAA tournament and dream of reaching Atlanta. Between them, they’ve played in 58 Final Fours although the Blue Devils and Wildcats seek their first appearance since 2015.
While UNC’s reliance on Anthony to score, rebound and create are certain to produce gaudy stats worthy of the Wooden and Naismith Awards at season end, guards Cassius Winston of Michigan State, Tyrese Maxey and Markus Howard of Marquette should also factor in the conversation along with freshmen Tyrese Maxey (Kentucky), James Wiseman (Memphis) and Anthony Edwards (Georgia).
Wiseman, a 7-1 center, and Edwards, a strong, athletic 6-4 wing, are widely viewed as the main contenders for the top pick in next June’s NBA Draft.
Two of the top recruits choosing non-traditional powers is one of many storylines to follow this season. Wiseman is the central piece in Penny Hardaway’s top-rated recruiting class while Edwards is the highest ranked prospect to ever enroll in Athens.
As much as the heavyweights rule the preseason and hang around until the end each season, surprise contenders are also part of the recipe that makes March Madness worth $19.6 billion to Turner over a 25-year span, ending in 2035. There’s always a Texas Tech lurking around the corner, looking to spoil the party (and the ratings). Here’s what you need to know about the other teams who could contend for the Final Four this season:
Louisville - Entering his second season, Chris Mack has cleaned up the mess following the Rick Pitino debacle, recruited well (12th best class in 2019) and is the insider’s choice to outlast preseason pick Duke, UNC and reigning national champion Virginia for the Atlantic Coast Conference title. The Cardinals are projected top five in offensive efficiency and defensive efficiency at KenPom.com and their star is Jordan Nwora, a 6-7 forward who can score inside and outside. Mack had an excellent nine-year run at Xavier but never reached the Final Four. This could be the year.
Florida - The Gators have been a defensive force under coach Mike White but lacked the offensive firepower required to hang with the nation’s elite. Their attack improved over the summer when graduate transfer Kerry Blackshear opted to finish his career in his home state. Blackshear is a mobile 6-10 center who commands attention inside-the-arc and uses positioning and strength to draw fouls. His presence allows the Gators’ strong freshman class to blend naturally with a solid core of veterans led by heady point guard Andrew Nembhard. Don’t be surprised if its the Gators, not UK, that wins the SEC regular season and takes the inside lane to a No. 1 seed.
Ohio State - Having a 270-pound center like Kaleb Wesson may be more valuable than ever because the 3-point line was moved back 17 inches in the offseason to the international distance and through the first week of games, percentages have plummeted. That could bode well for a Buckeyes squad with an excellent coach, Chris Holtmann, and a defense-first mentality (6th in adjusted efficiency). Ohio State hasn’t advanced to the NCAA tournament second weekend since 2013 when it reached the Elite 8 under Thad Matta. At the least, the Buckeyes should snap that streak this season.