Interview skills and fan connection matters in the NBA 2K League perhaps even more than it does in the NBA. Th NBA 2K League is still in its infancy as it heads toward its third season in 2020. The league is still looking to build its own organic stars.As the league continues to expand with new teams, sponsorship deals and core fan base, establishing stars becomes all the more important. T-Wolves Gaming’s Michael Key aka Bear Da Beast has established himself as arguably the biggest star in the league. He led his team to the Season 2 championship.
Meanwhile, Blazer5 Gaming has been perhaps the best regular-season team each of the past two years, but have faltered in the postseason. The team has been paced by Dayne Downey aka One Wild Walnut, the Season 1 MVP and Defensive Player of the Year. He has been one of the most engaging and brightest stars in the leagues since its inception.
He’s obviously been a great player on the virtual court, but Walnut’s star quality goes deeper. He gives engaging interviews and is one of the more notorious trash talkers. Both skills seem to go over well with the fans.
I had a chance to speak with him about connecting with fans and his interview style. Here’s what he had to say.
BM: What do you hear most from fans when they discuss the two years the league has been in existence?
DD: For the most part, the fans always talk about the energy and trash talk that has been a large part of the league for these past two seasons. A lot of fans enjoy watching that on the stream because it brings an extra layer beyond just the game itself that we play.
BM: You're a very cerebral guy. You've always offered some of the most entertaining and easily consumed interviews of anyone in the league. How do you think this has helped you engage with fans?
DD: When I’m playing the game or getting interviewed, I am always myself. I bring the energy for my team and it all stems from my competitive nature growing up playing sports. I think fans can see that I’m genuine in everything that I do and they appreciate that.
In Season 2, Downey’s teammate Mama I’m Dat Man took home MVP honors, but Blazer5 still hasn’t found the team success the organization craves. Perhaps Year 3 will be the charm.