This story was written in collaboration with 




Forbes Finds




. Forbes Finds covers products and experiences we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes may receive a small share of that sale.
We all have cherished books that were an integral part of our childhood, stories that we remember curling up with in the armchair, having read to us at bedtime and that we shared with our friends. As a mom of two, I love sharing books with my own kids that I read and reread as a child. The best children’s books don’t have a shelf-life but withstand the test of time. Here’s my pick of the best books to spark a grade-school child’s imagination. These reads will take them to faraway lands or on fun journeys that will encourage them to dream big. Some are old, some more modern, but all are classics in their own way.
When four siblings step through a wardrobe door they end up in C.S. Lewis’ land of Narnia where animals talk and it’s always winter but never Christmas. The characterization is fantastic, the descriptions are magical, it’s sometime sinister but always enchanting. A true children’s classic that allows you to escape to a completely different world.
The Pest was Beverly Cleary’s first book in which Ramona was allowed to take center stage (she’d been a character in a previous story), and the start of a series of books spanning more than three decades. Ramona’s magic is the fact that she’s just an ordinary girl, getting up to ordinary childhood adventures. She’s resilient, prone to getting into trouble, creative and sees the world a bit differently. For a character created back in 1955, she was a female protagonist ahead of her time. I read Ramona books cover-to-cover as a child, and my daughter and her friends have done the same.
Chocolate-filled rivers, everlasting gobstoppers, fizzy lifting drink and giant candy canes … what’s not to love about this classic 1964 novel by Roald Dahl? It transports us into a magical world filled with all things sweet and with a strong moral compass. It was difficult to pick just one of the writer’s works for this list, but Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is most children’s first introduction to Dahl. The pages are filled with scrumptious language and fantastic characters.
I have to admit that I watched the film Wonder before reading this book; my son raved about it, and once I had picked it up I couldn’t put it down. The Wonder story follows August, a young boy with a congenital facial deformity, and the cleverly written narrative switches between different voices, including Auggie’s own, his sister and friends. Powerful and moving, and ultimately a story about simply being kind.
Amazon recommends The Hobbit for 7th graders, 12 years and up, and it’s certainly a much faster-paced, shorter and easier read than the Lord of the Rings. The children’s fantasy novel first published in 1937 but has never lost its appeal for young and old alike. J.R.R. Tolkein draws you into a mythical world full of elves, dwarves, goblin and beautiful scenery. As we follow Bilbo Baggins in his reluctant journey with a wizard and 13 dwarves to reclaim some stolen dwarf treasure, there’s action and adventure in every chapter. And who doesn’t dream of a mentor like Gandalf to steer us through life?
This book is an eclectic mix of funny poems, drawings and life lessons that somehow just works. Where the Sidewalk Ends is one of those that you can read and be thoroughly entertained by as a child, and then pick up again as an adult and realize there’s greater depth to the writing still to be explored. A great book for sharing at bedtime as you can pick it up, read a couple of poems and then put it down again. And it’s a fantastic introduction (or reintroduction) to poetry.
You’d have to have been living under a Sorcerer’s Stone for the past two decades if you don’t know of Harry Potter. This title is the very first in J.K. Rowling’s series of Harry Potter books, released in 1997. Although written for children and young adults, you don’t need to be a child to enjoy and be entertained by these stories of Harry, his friends and their fantastical adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry —and don’t think that just because you’ve seen the films that you don’t need to read the books. The characters and plot lines are more developed, the use of language is brilliant and the films leave an awful lot out.
I have to confess that this is my all-time favorite children's book. Written by Judith Kerr—famed of course for the Tiger Who Came To Tea, which is a classic for younger readers—this book is based on Kerr’s own experiences as a Jewish girl fleeing Nazi Germany with her family. It’s a sensitively written account of what it was like to live as a child during that time, told through the narrator Anna’s nine-year-old eyes. A real-life history lesson—read, read it again and gift it to every child you know.
Jeffrey is an orphan, sent to live with his at-war aunt and uncle. He decides to escape—and ends up running into a racially divided town where he starts to make his own mark. Maniac Magee deals with some hard-hitting issues around race and prejudice, but there are a lot of funny and light-hearted moments in the book too. There’s a reason why this book makes it onto many middle-grade reading lists.
A dark fairy-tale by Neil Gaiman about a curious girl who, through boredom, opens a locked door and in doing that opens up the entrance to a whole new world. Coraline is reminiscent of the worlds of the Narnia Chronicles and Alice in Wonderland where surreal, fantastic and sometimes downright-creepy things happen, and like all good fairy tales it does have a sinister side. A quick read but one that completely draws you in and is set to become a true classic.