As wildfires burned near High Level and Slave Lake in May, Shawn Riese and a crew of six others were quickly flown in.
For the members of Alberta’s Wildland Firefighter Rappel Program, it was their job to tackle remote sections of the fires otherwise inaccessible to ground crews. Riese said they’d fly over an area and rappel, cut a clearing for other crews to land so they could then fight the blaze, before moving onto another spot to do the same thing.
On Wednesday, the UCP government said it’s scrapping the rappel program, which has 63 members.
Agriculture and Forestry Minister Devin Dreeshen said the government is “modernizing” its firefighting strategy, adding “fires actually get put out by boots on the ground.”
That decision was “baffling” to Riese, who said it would have been highly inefficient to fight the wildfires in northern Alberta without a rappel unit.
“It’s crazy. You’d have to hike to it,” said Riese, who joined the unit this past year.
“The alternative is getting bulldozers and making roads so that they can take off-road vehicles into the fire. Flying a helicopter takes way less time. … In some remote locations up there, it could take days to get up to some of those spots.”
For rappel units, the goal is to hit a wildfire before it reaches one hectare in size, when the blaze can quickly begin to spread even faster.
Adam Clyne, a rappel firefighter since 2012, said a single seven-man crew can tackle four fires simultaneously, by dropping two crew members at each fire, and then unloading water from a helicopter overtop the fourth.
Clyne, along with about 15 other current and former members of the program, denounced the cuts alongside NDP MLA Kathleen Ganley in Calgary on Thursday. He said the risk of wildfires is more “volatile” than ever.
“Considering that a single thunderstorm can spark a few hundred fires in a single hour, we need more — not less — resources,” said Clyne.
“Boots need a way to get on the ground. If a fire burns in an area that is inaccessible by road, how do we get our resources there? Sure, we can land five kilometres away, but in northern Alberta there are no nice hiking trails to that fire.
“It could take an hour, two hours to get to that fire and then you don’t know what you’re coming to.”
Each rappel team carries up to about 455 metres of hose, along with a bucket that can unload 1,225 litres of water onto the fire from a helicopter, says Jenelle Fenty, who was part of the program from 2013 to 2018.
Ganley called the rappelling team “an essential resource for fighting fires in Alberta.”
“They are an integral part of our firefighting team,” she said. “They are the reason we don’t hear about the many thousands of smaller wildfires that burn every year, because they stop those fires.”
Dreeshen said Wednesday the province plans to utilize just 100 of its 126 wildfire lookout towers in 2020 while cutting one air tanker unit.
He said the province will save $23 million through these changes, while members of the rappel program “can continue to be employed” in other capacities.
But the Alberta Union of Provincial Employees says that will lead to a spillover of firefighters into other programs, meaning fewer jobs available for those trained to tackle fires by ground.
“It’s still an overall job loss,” said AUPE vice-president Mike Dempsey.
“We are definitely in a time now of more severe fire events and so it seems very foolish in terms of public security.”
B.C. is the only other province with a similar wildfire-fighting rappel program.
But in Alberta, Dreeshen said firefighters are rappelled into locations in fewer than two per cent of wildfires across the province.
That figure is disputed by members of the program.
“I have no idea where that number came from,” said Riese, who noted that of the eight fires he helped tackle this past year, three involved rappelling.
According to figures provided by Adrienne South, a spokeswoman for Dreeshen, a crew was needed to rappel during an initial wildfire attack on an average of 18 fires per year over the past five years. There was an average of 1,433 wildfires per year in Alberta from 2014 to 2018.
Of the 1,288 wildfires across the province in 2018, 23 required a rappel response.
Even in those cases, South said firefighters could have arrived through other means, such as driving or helicoptering to a nearby location and walking, performing a hover exit from a helicopter, or being winched to a site by helicopter, known as a human external cargo operation.
“Rappel crews have been deployed on hundreds of wildfires, but in the vast majority of cases … there are other means for firefighters to arrive at those wildfires to suppress them,” she stated.
Clyne called the offer to work in another unit “a slap in the face.”
Any potential savings would be washed out by the need to put out larger, costly wildfires that otherwise might have been contained by rappel teams, he said.
“That’s not what’s best for the province and it’s not going to be as effective next year,” said Clyne.
shudes@postmedia.comTwitter: @SammyHudes