You can browse our full NYC show calendar for all of tonight’s shows, but here are some highlights…
Vio-lence, Ache @ Brooklyn BazaarAfter a long hiatus, thrash legends Vio-lence finally reunited, and they’ve been playing shows all year (we caught them at Psycho Las Vegas, where they sounded great). They play their first NYC shows of the reunion tonight and tomorrow at Brooklyn Bazaar.
JPEGMAFIA, Butch Dawson @ Music Hall of WilliamsburgJPEGMAFIA has quickly become a force in avant-rap, and he continues to get bigger and bigger. His tour supporting his great new album All My Heroes Are Cornballs includes two sold-out NYC shows this week, this being the second.
Rakim, PNTHN @ Sony HallHighly influential and legendary rapper Rakim has been reunited with his former partner in crime Eric B lately, but he still finds time for solo shows like this one in his hometown area tonight.
Samiam, Moving Targets, Have Gun Will Travel @ Union PoolPost-hardcore/emo vets Samiam haven’t released new music in a while, and their shows are pretty rare these days, so any chance to see them is worth taking. Making this show even more exciting is Massachusetts alt-rock OGs Moving Targets (who recently released their first studio album in over 25 years) and Have Gun Will Travel, who will be joined during their set by Texas Is The Reason frontman Garrett Klahn.
Logic, J.I.D., YBN Cordae @ Barclays CenterThe ever popular Logic headlines Barclays Center tonight, and he’s got support from two of the most promising newer rappers around, J.I.D. and YBN Cordae.
The World is a Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid To Die, Harmony Woods, Maxband @ Rough TradeIndie/emo/post-rock/etc collective The World Is A Beautiful Place & I Am No Longer Afraid To Die haven’t released new music in two years, but they just put out a compilation of odds and ends and they’re now on tour. Their unpredictable live show is always worth catching, and this tour should be no different. After tonight’s show, they play Long Island on Sunday.
Toro y Moi, Channel Tres @ Brooklyn SteelToro y Moi has proved to have a lot of longevity, even after the end of the chillwave era, and he is now set to bring his tour to Brooklyn Steel for sold-out shows there tonight and tomorrow. Opening is Channel Tres, who released the very good Black Moses EP in August.
Julia Jacklin, Christian Lee Hutson @ WarsawFresh off appearing on stage with Lana Del Rey earlier this week, Australian indie rock/folk artist Julia Jacklin comes to Brooklyn in support of this year’s very good Crushing (Polyvinyl). Opening is Christian Lee Hutson, who has a Phoebe Bridgers-produced album on the way.
Bambara, Russian Baths, Signal @ Saint VitusBrooklyn goth/noise rockers Bambara have a new album called Stray coming out next year (and they recently released the very good lead single “Serafina”), and while you wait for that, they play this hometown one-off tonight. Well-matched direct support comes from Russian Baths, whose debut album Deepfake comes out this week.
Talib Kweli w/ live band (ft. Slick Rick), Intelligenz @ Blue Note (two shows)Talib Kweli continues his full-band Blue Note residency with two shows tonight. Special guests are promised at both, and he spilled the beans that the early show will feature the legendary Slick Rick. Intelligenz will also open that one.
Masta Ace & Marco Polo with live band Lee Hogans & Pursuance @ Blue Note (late show)After Talib, stick around the Blue Note for more veteran Brooklyn rap from Masta Ace and his collaborator Marco Polo.
Oneida, Opto S, Spreaders @ LittlefieldExperimental rockers Oneida have long been one of Brooklyn’s true gems and they grace their hometown with a show tonight.
Junglepussy, Nightfeelings @ Pioneer WorksHaving recently released the very good single “Spiders,” NYC rapper Junglepussy performs at Brooklyn’s Pioneer Works tonight as part of Jacolby Satterwhite’s immersive installation “You’re at home.”
Blimes & Gab, Dave B @ Baby’s All RightSan Francisco/Seattle hip hop duo Blimes & Gab (aka Blimes and Gifted Gab, fka B.A.G.) went viral with last year’s “Come Correct,” and they recently released another fun song, “Feelin’ It.” Tonight, they bring their tour to NYC.
Satanicide, Jesse Rone Johnson @ Mercury LoungeNYC’s mock-hair metal band Satanicide have been back in action for a few years, and they’re continuing to grace “Lower East Side hipster clubs” with their tongue-in-cheek-but-convincing songs.
Magic Sword, Droid Bishop @ Mercury LoungeMysterious masked and cloaked synthwave trio Magic Sword are again hitting the road in 2019, including a return to NYC tonight.
New York Comedy FestivalNew York Comedy Festival continues tonight with tons of shows, including Trevor Noah at MSG, a Patriot Act show with Hasan Minhaj at Gramercy Theatre, Comedy Bang! Bang! Live at Beacon Theatre, and more.
David Byrne’s American Utopia @ Hudson TheatreDavid Byrne has retooled his acclaimed “untethered” 2018 for the Broadway stage and while the setlist and arrangements are much like what they were on his tour, songs are now threaded together with new monologues from Byrne, making for a much more theatrical experience.
For all of tonight’s shows, and tomorrow’s, check out our NYC concert calendar.
—
STAY IN TOUCH
Find BrooklynVegan on FACEBOOK and TWITTER and INSTAGRAM and YOUTUBE and SPOTIFY and SNAPCHAT.
For even more NYC show info, follow @BVNYCshows on Twitter.
Join our EMAIL LIST.
For even more metal, visit Invisible Oranges and follow them on Facebook & Twitter.
What else?