The video game industry is growing so fast that some believe it will reach over $300 billion by 2025. With billions of dollars in profit and over 2.5 billion gamers around the world, we can expect video game platforms to continue developing in 2020.Besides the consistent and impressive growth of the industry, it is interesting to note that there has been a shift in revenue sources in the gaming space lately. The gaming industry used to make most of its money by selling games but today its revenue is coming from a different perspective.
Adopting the Free-to-Play Model
The last couple of years have seen the growth of a new trend – free-to-play online video games such as Fortnite and Apex Legends. Since it is completely free to register and play these games, one would think that the gaming industry isn’t making much money off of them.
On the contrary, the free-to-play model has proven to be one of the most profitable types of video game models in the modern age. Today, most of the gaming industry’s revenue comes from the high demand for in-game items, which can be purchased with real money.
The most common in-game items include cars, weapons, or character outfits and other skins. Thanks to in-game purchases, the free-to-play games such as Fortnite still bring in billions of dollars in revenue each year.
For instance, out of Fortnite’s $2.4 billion of revenue, over one billion was generated through the sale of in-game items. With this trend on the rise, the majority of online games are now shifting to the free-to-play model with a focus on thousands of dollars that get traded through in-game items.
Third-Party In-Game Items Markets
With the gaming subscription services such as Google Stadia or Apple Arcade the in-game items trend will grow ‘on steroids’. As soon as access to titles will be easier and smoother, gamers will spend more time in the virtual worlds. Right now they are dedicating 7.1 hours weekly playing their favorite titles. It may double by 2021 with cloud gaming.
The new industry rules following a free-to-play model and the growth of subscription cloud services demand new monetization pathways from the game developers. And in-game skins becoming one of the main options for them to keep and entertain communities, and monetize their games at the same time. Either the game developers build in-game items economies themselves, or they hire a third party to provide that for them. It seems like this market is not very competitive for now, and there are only few third-parties that offer this solution. For example, DMarket founders claim to have 10+ years of experience in virtual item trading and building in-game economy from scratch. According to their website, the company provides both, a toolset to build in-game economy and a place to buy, sell, collect or exchange a wide variety of in-game collectibles. Their platform was upgraded in August 2019 to incorporate new features and make it more entertaining for players. For instance, these features allow users to instantly trade players old assets for new gaming gear, even without money involved. Buyers can make bids and offer their own price for other users’ assets and target items that haven’t been put up for sale yet.
In the next 2-3 years there will be a demand for B2B solutions that unfold, build and manage in-game items economies for the game developers. And the competition and amount of tools in this sector will only increase.
The emergence of third party platforms overall will not only help the video game industry grow further but it will also improve the gaming experience. Gamers can now take their hobby to the next level and connect with like-minded individuals, have fun, trade in-game items and even make it a business.