It's hard to see it now for the bustle of the restaurants, boutiques and the herds of Porsche Cayennes, BMWs and Land Cruisers lining the streets around Kollwitzplatz, but in the summer of 1989, East Berlin's Prenzlauer Berg was a neighborhood of crumbling Kaiser-Wilhelm-era apartment buildings, a few abandoned churches and public buildings, and little else. There were a few smoke-filled pubs that had survived. The buildings had largely not been renovated since the war, when the neighborhood was spared the artillery and aerial bombardment that flattened central Berlin because the advancing Red Army bivouacked there for a couple of weeks before rolling on down the hill to mop up the stragglers around Hitler's bunker. In Prenzlauer Berg in 1989, you could very much sense the end of WWII. Quite a number of the buildings carried the pockmarks of bullets and shrapnel from the last days of skirmishing. Which is why East Berlin's artists, musicians, writers, and dissidents, had been relegated to live there – none of the East German nomenklatura wanted anything to do with the old 19th-century buildings with drafty windows, holes in the stairs and shared toilets tucked into the stairwell landings. For the communist government, and for its enforcement arm, the Ministry For State Security, or Stasi, Prenzlauer Berg was an "anti-social" mix of dissidents engaged in "PUT," the Stasi-speak acronym for Politische-Untergrund-Taetigkeit, or political underground work. The neighborhood had no value, except as a wearying stake-out location for Stasi-men, as excellently portrayed in the movie The Lives Of Others, filmed by director Florian von Donnersmark in Prenzlauer Berg.
That the communists had basically put Prenzlauer Berg to sleep for forty years turns out to have been one of the better things that could have happened to it. Put another way, because Prenzlauer Berg escaped both razing and renovation under communism, its many charms were preserved underneath the postwar grime, much as a shipwreck's contents can be preserved by the ocean silt. As the Wall fell, and the Western view of neighborhoods like this sunk in, this charming corner of the world was poised to become one of Berlin's most desirable and expensive addresses, with square-foot prices through the roof. Its renovation kicked off with fair speed at the fall of the Wall and has only picked up steam since.
The story is a primer of how latent urban value – not simply financial value, but value to the matrix of city life – is made, or more precisely, re-claimed. Today, literally down the street from the apartment house where seminal East German dissident Siegbert Schefke escaped the Stasi-men by skipping over the roofs of neighboring houses, the stately old 19th-century facades have all had the bulletholes and shrapnel marks from the Russians erased, the hall toilets have been ripped out, the doorknobs have been polished, the cafes spill into the streets.
When they divided up Berlin into sectors in 1945, the Allies were strongarmed by Stalin to give the center of town to the Russians. That meant that much of the Prussian monumental structure and infrastructure – the Berlin Cathedral, the State Opera, the Gendarmenmarkt, Potsdamer Platz, Unter den Linden and the Brandenburg Gate all landed in the east. West Berlin didn't really have a center as such, and still doesn't, despite the heavy revitalization program these days around the Zoo.
The line between Mitte and Prenzlauer Berg – where the Berg, or hill, of Prenzlauer Berg actually begins, is the Torstraße. At No. 1 Torstraße sits a sweeping white stone Art Deco building whose history embodies Berlin's enormous 20th-century odyssey, from the Roaring Twenties to the Nazis, to the Communists, through 30 years of post-Wall reconstruction down to this day.
The building was built in 1929 as the Jonaß department store by the store's principals, Hermann Golluber and Hugo Halle. The store was a roaring, innovative success. Unfortunately, as they came to power, the Nazis loved the building, and quickly dispossessed Golluber and Halle, who were Jewish. Hitler's minister for "youth," Baldur von Shirach, took it over, which is to say, No. 1 Torstraße did the war as the HQ for the Hitler Youth. Amazingly, it was not bombed or even shelled as the Russian army bivouacked two blocks north up Prenzlauer Allee in April and May 1945.
When the Russians were looking to set up their puppet East German government in 1948, it became party leader Wilhelm Pieck's office. After he moved out, the building became the communist party archives. The communists were able to keep the archive in the building after November 9, 1989 for the remaining few months of the East German state, but as the state dissolved, the building lay dormant as ownership was slowly restored by the (West) German government to the descendants of the Jonaß owners. The rumor was that a hotel chain had bought it from them.
Berlin became a stop on the unending millennial party-train in the late Aughts, as Kreuzberg and Friedrichshain districts just south of Prenzlauer Berg were jammed with new clubs and bars. On cue and spot on trend in 2010, then, Nick Jones, the British entrepeneur and founder of the Soho House chain of clubs, announced that he was opening a spectacular new branch of Soho House in Berlin. In a kind of global-disco big-city way, it meant that Berlin had arrived. And the address of the glitzy new Soho House, with its green-tiled roof pool and its lounge beds in the bar?
No. 1 Torstraße, Prenzlauer Berg. It means that the discerning traveler can, today, party down in all of Berlin's 20th- and 21st-century eras at once, which more or less a feature of many spots in town, and which in fact lends a sort of blade-like edge to Berlin's nightlife. But Berlin's tumultous 20th- and 21st-century history is not quite so concentrated or layered in so few rooms as at the Soho House, where a Jewish-owned department store became a Nazi ministry, an survived the war to become the seat of government for the nascent East German state.
The former Hitler Youth offices on the third floor, which became Wilhelm Pieck's office, is now a banquet hall that seats sixty.