Four years ago, after reaching the 2015 World Cup quarterfinal match, Australian women’s soccer players went on strike. Less than three months after the best World Cup finish in Australian soccer history, the Westfield Matildas were unpaid and caught in a contentious wage dispute.Fast forward to now, the Matildas, as members of Professional Footballers Australia (PFA), agreed to a new four-year collective bargaining agreement that closes the gender pay gap between the women’s and men’s national teams. Football Federation Australia (FFA) and PFA reimagined the salary distribution between the Matildas and Caltex Socceroos – ranked eighth and 44th in the world, respectively.
Under the new collective bargaining agreement (CBA), the Matildas and Socceroos will receive a 24% share of an agreed aggregate of generated revenues in 2019-20, rising by 1% each year.
The Matildas will be paid through centralized contracts, which will feature minimum guaranteed payments, as well as supplemented by a player-driven bonus structure. Meanwhile, the Socceroos will be paid through a combination of a flat match fee and a commercial dividend, which will align with the Matildas’ guarantees. Ultimately, the size of these payments will depend on the federation’s financial performance.
Also, under the new CBA, players will receive an increase in tournament prize money. On qualifying for the FIFA World Cup, players are entitled to 40% of prize money (up from 30%) and the share increases to 50% if the team advances to the knockout stage of the competition. For the AFC Asian Cup, the prize money share increases to 33% (up from 30%) and 40% for advancing to the final match.
“A massive step has been taken to close the gender pay gap between the Caltex Socceroos and the Westfield Matildas. It is a four-year deal, and it is a revenue-sharing model around the national team generated revenue that is what is truly unique about this. It will lead to a sharing of that revenue equally between the Socceroos and the Matildas,” David Gallop, FFA CEO, said during the announcement press conference.
“We have a remuneration model tied to the revenue generated by our players, and that is truly unique. It will incentive our players to grow the game. Also – we think – will start a cycle where sponsors will look differently upon the game and look more equally around how we generate revenue. We expect more upside in the years to come.”
Moving forward, the top-earning Socceroo in any given calendar year will earn the same as the top-earning Matilda. For FFA, the agreement in many respects is blind to gender and anchored in deep partnership and a belief in the game’s long-term sustainability.
“I have been involved in a lot of collective bargaining agreements and negotiations over the last 15 years. I was there when we negotiated our first contract,” said former Matilda and FFA head of game development, Sarah Walsh.
“It is hard not to be sentimental about today because it is a massive moment. I think of the 203 Matildas who have worn a jersey. I think there are very solid foundations here for us to adopt and mirror the principles around equality.”