Redesign your living room with this season’s hottest home decor selections all for a great price. Between West Elm and Crate and Barrel's furniture sales, you'll have everything you'll need to upgrade your living room this fall and at the right price. From stylish and functional coffee tables to chic accent tables, and comfy poufs and ottomans, you can instantly transform your space with just a few pieces that all happen to be on sale right now. Don’t waste any time and shop these savings today.
This multi-tasking coffee table is perfect for a small space storage solution. To the naked eye, this coffee table is just a chic mix of dark wood and marble and is purely decorative, but it can do so much more. The dark stained eucalyptus wood table top pops open to reveal storage space to conceal everything from remotes to magazines. The pop-up also doubles as a table top so your couch can transform into a workstation or counter in seconds. The marble slab on the opposite side is the perfect surface for testing out your coffee table decorating skills, and the open shelf underneath is great for showing off your latest reads. Originally on sale for $699, now on sale for $489.30
For the perfect balance of functional and fabulous look no further than this coffee table. The metal basin’s antique brass and bronze finish instantly create a glamorous centerpiece for your living room. Its contrast with the mango wood top makes it perfect for any design style whether it be formal or casual. The drum’s metallic finish can inform your tabletop decor choices. Brass candle holders and vases will pop on the wood top. Beyond being a visual point in the room, this coffee table is full of storage space. Using the finger cutouts, remove the tabletop to reveal storage for all your throws and pillows. Originally on sale for $599, now on sale for $479.20.
Keep all of your favorite items on display with this coffee table. Use the glass top as a display case to show off your expert-level coffee table styling skills. You can create a story with different books and trinkets all under the tabletop while keeping the surface free and clear to use. The contrast of the glass top, raw mango wood and metal frame is a perfect combination for a contemporary living room. This table also allows you to have all the glamour on top, and some functionality at the bottom as the wood base has two drawers for storage. Originally on sale for $799, now on sale for $559.30.
Looking to add a modern flair to the living room that screams class? This side table has a simple look that adds a ton of extra versatility to your living room thanks to the fact that it can hide a smaller side table right under it. The table has a strong metal base and marble tops with a natural veining that anyone will love.
This table may be simple, but it’s still stunningly well-made and can work in pretty much any situation. It has a nice sand casting to give it an aluminum a textured surface. It’s not too big, coming in with a 15-inch diameter, but that means that it can safely fit anywhere you want it to.
Okay. This playful stool might seem like a wildcard option, but it actually works with a variety of decor styles. If your vibe is a little more boho chic, this ottoman will fit in with the rest of your natural textures and earth tones. In a super glam setting the rich fur and luxe gold legs will elevate the space. Whether you find a use for this as a footstool, accent chair or a seat for your vanity, there is a room in your home ready to take this on. Originally on sale for $399, now on sale for $200.