The story behind Deliver Us the Moon recalls a lot of upstart PC development stories from the ‘80s, where people either blindly approached a studio or packaged their own software in plastic bags, selling them at retail. “We started out on kitchen table with a $0 budget,” writes Keoken Interactive co-founder Koen Deetman. Deliver Us the Moon grew though. A lot. Over four years, what started with nothing became a $1.5 million project via Kickstarter, peaking at 21 people. “Business can be difficult, and we've learned it the hard way. We were debuting, green, without a track record. Therefore nailing a six figure Kickstarter was something special and definitely a huge overnight success.”
Thank a certain grandfather for the inspiration in this world-saving adventure, partly. “Our grandfather was always fascinated with the universe, especially since he started making his own telescopes… Seeing the craters up close and almost having the feeling we were there left a lasting impression on us,” Deetman explains.
There’s also the National Geographic factor. A documentary about dwindling resources on Earth put the idea in Deetman’s head for a game about exploring the moon to keep Earth alive. So, what if Earth suddenly lost its resources?
“The closest celestial body is the moon — how would we make use of this, and most importantly: how would we fix Earth? When you hear astronauts who have been to the ISS talk about Earth, you realize they've returned from space as concerned and enlightened human beings. They tell us that the Earth, our home, is a fragile organism living and moving on its own. Addressing this into Deliver Us The Moon, I hope people start to think twice about the real world and how we treat it,” Deetman writes.
After the Kickstarter, Keoken made an E3 appearance to promote their PC release. Funny story about that - the team dressed in blue spacesuits, but their origins were not typical. “They are actually 'farmer' suits from the Netherlands. The farmer we bought them from was really surprised when we ordered the 'Kickstarter backer batch' of 100+ suits. He couldn't recall a farmer with that many employees. When we told him they were meant for making spacesuits, he had a good laugh,” Deetman writes.
Things began to change afterward. At E3, the team met with an unnamed publisher, but that relationship collapsed. “The stakes got even higher and we got a serious lesson in what it's like to compete in this industry on a top level,” Deetman explains, but not expanding on those events.
That put a drain on the team, and half of the employee contracts were not renewed. That led to an early release with a cliffhanger ending, Keoken’s only way to stay afloat. “It was clear we needed help from a publisher to get the game marketed, localized, and ported to consoles,” Deetman writes. That’s when they found Wired Productions, who brought Deliver Us the Moon to a finish, and is also planning a physical release.
Getting there required crunch, with days beginning at 7AM and lasting to 3AM. Under the win of Wired Productions, the team swore off any additional crunch in solving that cliffhanger ending. “We are proud to say that we succeeded and maintained this mindset, even though we had only half the team and budget,” Deetman writes, bringing Deliver Us the Moon to a positive end.