The same day James Wiseman was deemed ineligible by the NCAA, the University of Memphis was granted a “temporary emergency restraining order” that will allow Wiseman to play Friday night against the University of Illinois-Chicago.Wiseman, a five-star recruit for new head coach Penny Hardaway, is a candidate for the No. 1 overall pick in the 2020 NBA Draft.
Late Friday evening, Wiseman’s lawyer, Leslie Ballin, told reporters his client had been deemed ineligible by college sports’ governing body due to financial help ($11,500 according to the school) Wiseman received from Hardaway while Wiseman was in high school. The coach assisted Wiseman’s family in moving to Memphis in 2017, making Hardaway, in the eyes of the NCAA, a booster for the Memphis program.
Memphis officials are hopeful for a reversal, in part based on the fact that Wiseman was originally ruled eligible by the NCAA this spring.
“Particularly given the unique circumstances in this case, we are hopeful for a fair and equitable resolution on James’ eligibility,” University of Memphis President M. David Rudd said in a statement.
This all happened, according to 247 Sports’ Evan Daniels, prior to Wiseman’s senior year of high school. Later that year, Wiseman began playing for Hardaway’s AAU team, Team Penny.
It is unclear the degree to which Wiseman’s draft stock will be helped or hurt if he were to miss a significant portion of the NCAA basketball season. Wiseman currently is at the top of ESPN’s 2020 big board, but questions about his defensive awareness and versatility in an increasingly positionless pro game remain.
In his first game for Memphis, Wiseman posted 28 points, 11 rebounds and three blocks, dominating South Carolina State with his size and athleticism.
Should Wiseman be forced to miss most or all of the rest of the college basketball season because of this NCAA ruling, Olgun Uluc of FOX Sports Australia is already reporting the country’s National Basketball League would have interest in the young big man. The league’s Next Stars program already drew in potential 2020 top-10 picks LaMelo Ball and RJ Hampton, so Wiseman could have a professional opportunity awaiting him if he cannot play for Memphis.
Eyes will be on Wiseman on Friday night in Memphis as the Tigers play UIC, as scouts will be wondering whether it is their last chance to see the big man in game action until the NBA draft next June.