This story was written in collaboration with Forbes Finds. Forbes Finds covers products we think you’ll love. Featured products are independently selected and linked to for your convenience. If you buy something using a link on this page, Forbes and the author may receive a small share of that sale.Best Buy already has some great live sales, but now its Black Friday ad scan is official and the biggest deals have been revealed. How good are the reductions and what are the top deals? Here’s everything you need to know.
Note: you can find my Black Friday 2019 store-by-store guides to the best live sales at Amazon (here), Costco (here), Kohl’s (here), Target (here) and Walmart (here). I have also done roundups of the best live Apple deals and biggest Samsung savings.
Amazon Black Friday 2019: Here Are The Best DealsForbes Gordon Kelly
First, the one big omission: iPhones. I’d be amazed if Best Buy didn’t have late discounts for the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max but, right now, these are the headline deals and when they will be available:
Starting Thursday, November 28, 2019
Best Buy may not list iPhone deals, but what it does have is of extremely high quality. The Galaxy and Pixel deals are unlikely to be bettered this holiday season (with the possible exception of Costco’s blowout Galaxy deal). The Pixel 3a offer is a no-brainer for anyone looking to get one of the best smartphone cameras available for a tantalising price and only Kohl’s Cash deals come close to matching these Xbox One X and Xbox One S savings.
Best Buy Black Friday 2019 Current Live Deals
For bargain hunters looking for a deal right now, you’ve also come to the right place because Best Buy has launched more excellent offers in addition to its other existing live deals. These are my top picks:
Note: some of these deals are only for My Best Buy members so you will need to sign in first and the price drop registers when you checkout
My tips would be to take a close look at all the iPad deals, the Surface Pro 7 bundle is excellent with the Type Cover and check out the Sony XM3 headphones (they’re my favourite noise-cancelling headphones). The Tab S6 is also the top Android tablet right now, and you’re getting great deals on the HP Omen. The AirPods discounts are always welcome, but Amazon has them along with a rare AirPods Pro deal.
Walmart Black Friday 2019 Sales: What We Know So FarForbes Gordon Kelly
Tip: Black Friday 2019 shipping policies can be found for Amazon (here), Best Buy (here), Target (here) and Walmart (here). To track my daily Black Friday guides, leaks and recommendations hit the Follow button on my author page.
___
More of my Black Friday Guides on Forbes