To those who followed the Houston Rockets closely in 2018-2019, Austin Rivers was something of a revelation. Filling in for the injured Chris Paul, he quickly became a vital cog in the Rockets’ rotation, helping the team tighten its defense in the second half of the season and finish with the second best defensive rating in the league after the All-Star break. In 47 games with the Rockets in 2018-2019, the then-26 year old Rivers averaged 8.7 points and 2.3 assists per game, shooting 41% from the floor and 32% on 3’s. While the shooting numbers may not reflect offensive potency, Rivers’ ability to create off the dribble fit Houston’s drive-and-kick system beautifully as he was able to take advantage of the isolation opportunities he was afforded within the flow of the offense.
Armed with just the mid-level exception during the summer, and also needing to re-sign forward Danuel House Jr., it became unclear whether the Rockets would be able to retain the free agent Rivers. However, on July 1, Rivers and the team came to terms on a veteran minimum contract that is paying Rivers $2.174 million this season; the deal gives Rivers a $2.436 million player option for next season. The deal was surprising given that a comparable player in Patrick Beverley signed for three years at $40 million.
Its possible that the Rockets plan to take care of the 27-year-old Rivers next summer the way they did with Paul after Paul opted into his contract facilitating his trade to the Rockets. In the summer, Houston would be able to use the ‘Early Bird’ exception on Rivers, an exception which allows teams to exceed the cap to re-sign players who have played for two seasons without clearing waivers or changing teams as a free agent.
With the ‘Early Bird’ exception, a team can re-sign its own free agent for the greater of up to 175% of his salary in the previous season or 105% of the average salary in the previous season. An ‘Early Bird’ contract can be anywhere between two to four years in length with raises up to 8% of the salary in the first season of the contract.
The estimated average salary for 2019-2020 is $9.56 million. (The average salary is not determined until the league audit in July.) 105% of that amount comes out to a first-year salary of $10.038 million. A three-year contract with 8% raises would come out to annual salaries of $10.038 million, $10.841 million, and $11.644 million over the life of the contract. In essence, a three-year deal for Rivers could look something like three-years, $32.52 million.
Assuming that such an agreement is the unspoken plan, an interesting question is whether the Rockets would have wanted to bring Rivers back long-term at such a potentially high cost had they known they would be trading Paul for Russell Westbrook. Rivers makes sense as a counterpart to Paul because of his youth and because of Paul’s shooting ability. Westbrook is still in his prime, is durable, and a similarly poor outside shooter like Rivers. There’s no need to manage Westbrook’s load currently the way there would have been for Paul.
Still, Rivers can play an important role on this Rockets team by anchoring its backcourt defense. Westbrook is an inferior defender to Paul and thus far, the team has taken a nosedive in defensive rating. If he builds upon last season’s performance, the Rockets will be pleased with their investment.