As soon as Elizabeth Warren’s education plan went public, complete with its call for a end to federal money for charter school growth and a ban on profiteering in the charter sector, the pushback began. Some of it was basic “you’re wrong” politicking, but some of the angriest pushback accused her of selling out to the teachers’ unions.
It’s not the very first time she’s been accused of becoming a union tool on charter schools. Back in January, Jonathan Chait tried to make the charge stick by rewriting the history of the Massachusetts charter school referendum of 2016, casting it as a battle between the super-powerful teachers unions and poor parents, while omitting the investment billionaires who backed charters and the many other groups that opposed them.
But now, Larry Sand, of the California Teachers Empowerment Network (a group devoted to getting teachers to leave the union) was mighty angry, calling her an “anti-choice teacher union suck-up” waging a “no teachers union left behind” campaign.
The Washington Free Beacon charged that “Warren took thousands from teachers’ unions before charter flip-flop,” implying that the unions bought her opposition to charter schools (and by their own figuring, bought it unbelievably cheaply). The Free Beacon is a conservative website backed by billionaire hedge funder Paul Singer; it’s also the organization that originally funded Fusion GPS’s dirty-digging on then-candidate Donald Trump. They are not exactly mainstream media.
But U.S. News ran their own response by senior education writer Lauren Camera under the headline “Warren Embraces Teachers Unions Over Charter Schools.” On one side, she suggests, are charter supporters, and on the other, the unions. The teachers unions, Camera said, “fawned over the proposal.”
There are problems with this framing. First, there were many aspects of the Warren proposal that teachers responded favorably to, such as the call for reduced testing, a funding boost, and a diversity initiative. There are plenty of things in the proposal for teachers and their unions to be excited about other than her charter position. Warren did stand with striking teachers in Chicago, and she said many encouraging things, but none of them were, “Together we are going to end charter schools.”
There’s a larger problem with the theory that unions got Warren to sell out and become a charter opponent. It uses the common shorthand that assumes that the teachers’ unions are staunchly anti-charter, and that shorthand deserves some scrutiny.
Some charter proponents have been eager to portray themselves as standing up to unionization, of creating schools that are free of the “problems” of unionized teachers (”problems” like they don’t want to work an extra 50 hours/week for free). Unions have been cast as villains that charters can nobly oppose.
But the big unions have failed to play their role as rabid opponents of charter schools. The NEA Policy Statement on Charter Schools states that “NEA supports public charter schools that are authorized and held accountable by public school districts.” It further states that “unaccountable privately managed charters” are a “failed and damaging experiment.” This is not a radical position to take–unless you believe that real charters should be privately owned and operated, profitable, and unaccountable.
As AFT president Randi Weingarten wrote to me, “The truth is we are not anti public charter, we are pro public schools and believe if charters exist they should be held to the same standards as other public schools, and not syphon off needed resources.”
Did the union somehow twist Warren’s arm or grease her palm? Weingarten calls that an “incendiary stereotype.” She adds, “We are in a field of helping make a difference in kids lives, not shaking people down.” Weingarten shared one data point that further explains why the NEA and AFT will probably never take a hard line against all charter schools: The AFT represents teachers in over 200 charter schools. When Warren stood and addressed striking Chicago teachers, the public school teachers were not the only ones on strike; teachers at Passages Charter School also walked out. That was the fourth strike by Chicago charter teachers in the last year.
Some charters have certainly worked hard to keep unions out, and some times the steady churn of charter teachings keeps unions from forming. But the march of unionization in charter land has been ongoing, perhaps because the reasons for wanting to join a union are no different in charter schools than in public schools. Charter schools could well be a major source of growth for the unions. Even someone with the most cynical view of the unions (”They just want to get members so they can collect more money”) should see that unions have reason not to try to kill the charter movement.
Warren’s stance on charters is arguably tougher than the unions’–but neither is anti-charter school, unless you believe that ending profiteering, holding charters accountable to the public, and prohibiting them from draining necessary public school resources are all somehow antithetical to charter school operation.
Charter proponents may score some points by portraying themselves as beleaguered opponents of the teachers unions, but they do themselves no favors by suggesting that opposition to charter profiteering, fraud, and accountability-free waste is the same as opposition to the very idea of charters. NEA and AFT haven’t said, “Don’t do charters.” They have said, “If we’re going to do charters, let’s think about how to do them in a way that is accountable and which best serves the taxpayers who foot the bill.” To suggest that any politician who opposes profiteering, waste, and fraud in the charter sector is a tool of the teachers unions is insulting to all parties, including charter schools, just as it is insulting to suggest that the only way one would oppose those things is if she was bought off.