The only time Eververse was not a subject of debate in the Destiny community was when it was practically giving away everything for free between engrams and massive Bright Dust pools, but now Bungie realized that wasn’t sustainable, so the pendulum has swung back the other way.So far, that has meant no random engram drops, fewer offerings for Bright Dust and all around high prices in the Eververse store. It’s pretty clear that Eververse will “evolve” again soon enough, and when it does, this is how I think it should go. This idea, like many others, was spawned by a recent Rageless Roundtable podcast discussion, and I’ve been thinking about it ever since.
I’m going to call this an Eververse battle pass, because my idea is merging it with the current season rank battle pass system that I have found to be quite good and rewarding and relatively uncontroversial.
The idea is this. For the sake of simplicity, I’m going to leave pretty much everything the same. That means.
Eververse items can be bought individually for silver in the store.
Eververse items can be bought on a rotating basis for earn Bright Dust.
The free Season Rank track offers some rewards for F2P players.
The premium Season Rank track offers far more rewards, but is included in the $10 cost of the season.
Here’s what I’m adding:
A $25 Eververse track for the Season Rank system.
The horror! My eyes! $25? Are you insane? What’s going on!
Stay with me here.
Here’s the concept. This would be a third track of the current season rank system which would put every Eververse item behind level 1-100 XP gates. As you earn stuff from the first two tracks, you would also earn cosmetics from the Eververse track if you put down $25 for the pass. If you decide to buy it later on, you would automatically get everything up to your current level, and go from there.
Why $25? It sounds like a lot, but in the grand scheme of how pricing currently works in Eververse, it’s really not. If you add up all the emotes, ornaments, armor sets, sparrows, ships, ghosts and shaders, it is quite literally hundreds of dollars if you were purchasing them all individual with silver. You may disagree with that valuation in terms of how much those virtual items are actually worth, but I’m just saying that’s what it would cost if you bought them all. So this idea, to put all Eververse items in a battle pass system with an ultra-premium tier, you are actually letting collectors save a ton of money and make sure they don’t miss anything from the current season. $25 actually might even be too cheap, given the sheer amount of stuff in Eververse these days, especially if we’re including holidays too, but I’ll start from there.
It is certainly possible that Bungie wouldn’t like this idea because it would mostly eliminate ultra-whales who would spend tons of money per season. But speaking as an ultra-whale, even I have to say the current system is just too expensive. I can’t do it. As much as I love Destiny, as much as I do have the disposable income to buy things, it’s just too much. But I would absolutely, automatically buy a $25 Eververse pass every single season, on top of the $10 I’m already paying for the season itself.
If Bungie can convince a decent amount of players to also agree to this kind of system, then you have suddenly turned Destiny into a pretty legitimate subscription MMO. $35 every three months is $12 a month or so, which is WoW-level subscription income. So yes, you’re giving players a huge discount on cosmetics, but you could sell an “ongoing” version of this that all but guarantees income.
Collectors get way more cosmetics for way cheaper than they normally would. Bungie gets recurring revenue from people getting cosmetic passes every season on top of the cost of the normal system. Players who want to skip this can still grind Bright Dust or buy individual items. This feels like a win-win-win for all sides.
I think this idea builds on the success of the current season pass while solving the insane price issues of the current Eververse store. I have no idea if Bungie is open to this concept, but it genuinely feels like a path they should at least experiment with. If no one buys it, or if too many people buy it and it’s not profitable enough, kill it, but at least give a shot in a future season to see how it goes.