Women are now seen as being as competent as men, or even more competent, by the vast majority of Americans. That’s a big change from the prevailing gender stereotypes of 70 years ago, according to a study published by Alice Eagly and others this year in the American Psychologist, the lead journal of the American Psychological Association.Eagly (the James Padilla Chair for Arts and Sciences at Northwestern University) and her colleagues conducted a meta-analysis of 16 national opinion polls surveying more than 30,000 U.S. adults between 1946 and 2018. These surveys examined three categories of traits — communal behaviors like compassion, empathy and sensitivity; agentic conduct that is ambitious, assertive and competitive; and competence which includes attributes like intelligence, creativity, and skill.
In each survey respondents were asked, in one form or the other, whether they thought various traits were more true of women or men or equally true of both. Gendered stereotypes of competence changed dramatically over time. For example, in a 1946 poll, 35% believed men and women to be equally intelligent, but among those thinking there was a difference, more respondents perceived men to be the more competent sex. However, by a 2018 poll, 86% believed men and women were equally intelligent, while 9% saw women as more intelligent and 5% viewed men were more intelligent.
In addition, Eagly found the stereotype that women are more compassionate and sensitive than men has actually grown over time, increasing from roughly 50% of people viewing women as the more compassionately sex in the 1940s to about 75% holding that view in 2018. Meanwhile the stereotype that men are more ambitious and competitive than women has not changed.
A major conclusion of the authors is that some stereotypes are not as fixed or rigid as usually assumed. Instead, they are mutable, changing in response to different social roles and responsibilities taken on by women and men.
Increased perceptions of women’s competence might derive from two such trends. First, women’s participation in the labor force has increased from about a third in the 1950s to almost 60% currently, while men’s participation has declined during the same time frame. There’s no better proof of competence than the day-in-day-out positive performance of women in the increasing range of jobs they’ve assumed.
The second trend is the dramatic gain in women’s success in higher education, manifest by an across-the-board surge in degree completion and a strong college completion edge for women over men. Currently, women earn the majority of bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees awarded to Americans, an advantage they’ve maintained - and even lengthened - for years, and gradually those degrees are shifting to fields once seen as bastions of masculine dominance.
In addition, women now make up 44% of full-time teaching faculty at American colleges. Almost certainly the growing respect for women’s competence is bolstered to some degree by the ever-increasing odds that students are being instructed, mentored and supervised by female faculty, many of whom are also assuming charities and deanships.
The implications are not all rosy, however. Some findings confirm the continuing reality of a glass ceiling for women, especially with respect to traits commonly associated with leadership. As Eagly observes, “On a less positive note, most leadership roles require more agency than communion. Therefore, the lesser agency ascribed to women than men is a disadvantage in relation to leadership positions.”
Continuing occupational segregation and gendered differences in domestic duties probably account for the findings involving the attributes of communion and agency. Women’s work is still concentrated in jobs that emphasize social skills, and despite some shifts in expectations for shared parenting, women spend much more time than men on child care and household duties. Men still cluster in occupations requiring physical strength, competition, and technical analysis.
These results provide additional support for the vital role of higher education as a pathway for economic equality, in this case for the advancement of women. It’s a field where competence matters, and it's a field where women have excelled. That success has been associated in turn with significant social benefits and economic gains for women. Finally, one might wonder why these impacts are typically ignored by higher education’s unrelenting naysayers and college-is-not-for-everyone cynics, almost all of whom happen to be men who hold advanced degrees.