Prior to the FCC’s legal mandate in November 2004, it was surprisingly inconvenient to change your mobile phone service provider. You had to be really frustrated with your service, because changing your provider meant losing your mobile phone number.For many companies, this experience rings true for the data managed by their digital marketing agencies: 40% of marketers distrust their media agency partners, an 11% decline in confidence from the previous two years. What is less publicly known is that despite companies owning their data, there are often challenges with the level of access companies have to that data and the transparency in how this data is being presented or reported by the partner agencies. Specifically:
• Agencies often resist sharing data with other agencies (especially those perceived as competitive threats).
• Barriers arise when large agencies of record (AORs) are asked to share data with smaller companies they perceive to be less qualified in the space.
• Companies often receive “top-level reports” on campaign performance without being given direct access to their own data for analysis.
These are just some of the frustrations companies have experienced up to this point. However, these frustrations in isolation weren’t enough to consider bringing the ownership and management responsibilities of data in-house until new legislation passed.
GDPR, CCPA And Data Privacy Legislation
With many articles already written about the changing data privacy legislation, I won’t belabor the point. Simply put, with these new regulations, data liability has shifted to companies, and now companies are digging into their data governance policies. Issues that are associated with losing control of data governance (while still being on the hook for it) are bringing up the question, “Should we bring all of this in-house and manage our data directly?”
Defining ‘In-House’
To be clear, when I say “in-house,” I do not mean bringing things like video production, content marketing, creative strategy and social media into corporate brand teams (although some have chosen to do so). A more common approach is for companies to take direct ownership of any and all customer- and campaign-related data in-house and bypass their agency for collection, management, storage and analysis. The main benefits of going this route are greater transparency, real-time access to the data, institutional knowledge gained and end-to-end control (which helps ensure compliance with new regulations — i.e., avoiding fines).
The Challenges With Bringing All Your Data In-House
On paper, the task appears simple. You already know what data you’ve asked your digital marketing agency to collect. Because of the latest data-related legislation, you’ve most likely dug into the myriad of vendors who touch the data that is collected on your organization’s behalf. Now comes the more difficult part of the migration. Do you have the right team? Do you have the right know-how? How do you plan to get your team up to speed and ready to take on these new responsibilities?
Challenge No. 1: Acquiring The Right Team
Again, on paper this looks simple; in reality, it’s more difficult than most companies believe. Let’s say you make the business case and even get the budget approval to hire 10 people to take on this effort. It’s at about this time you discover a few major hurdles. Right off the bat, you find companies like Google and Facebook are paying top dollar for the kinds of people you’re looking to attract. Despite the research you did to calculate the compensation needs for each of the new roles, the costs of acquisition are higher than you expected.
Challenge No. 2: Having The Right Know-How And Getting Your Team Up To Speed
Let’s say you’ve overcome the hiring hurdle and have a solid onboarding plan for the right team. There’s still the issue of having the know-how. But wait — isn’t that precisely why you hired and paid top dollar for this team? Not exactly. While they are well qualified to data-wrangle and leverage the latest tools and platforms, they still need guidance. Knowing what problems to solve is an important part of onboarding an in-house team.
Challenge No. 3: Enforcing Deeper Data Governance And Legal Ramifications
Perhaps the most difficult challenge to overcome when taking this new work in-house is to both create and enforce your own data governance policies to avoid data breaches and any legal ramifications. Prior to GDPR and CCPA, the biggest thing companies needed to watch out for was data hacks. That threat has only increased as hackers have grown in their sophistication. But now there are also regulators who seek to ensure compliance with newly passed data laws, and no one wants to be made an example of.
The Hybrid Model
Between staying with your digital marketing agency and going in-house, there is a third option: the hybrid model. The hybrid model allows you to have direct control of and real-time access to your data while still leveraging the services of outside experts. This begins with a strategy framework where you map out precisely where you want to play, how you want to win, who inside your company will manage which parts of the framework and which parts you will continue outsourcing to your current digital marketing agency (or similar partner).
The hybrid model allows you to access the partners and knowledge to ensure a smooth onboarding process while getting your in-house team established and correctly positioned to take direct control of customer data, including the systems and processes. This approach provides powerful checks and balances between your in-house team and outside support while empowering you to maintain control of your data.
No matter what you decide to do, there’s no question that with the change in legislation and increased competition, the time has come to take a hard look at what you need to win when it comes to your marketing and customer data.