From a symbol of oppression to one defining the end of an era, the Berlin Wall remains inextricably linked to the history of the German capital. In the 30 years since it fell, marking the beginning of the end of the separation between West Germany and the Soviet Union-affiliated German Democratic Republic (GDR), the Berlin Wall has undergone a huge transformation.
What used to be a heavily-guarded 96-mile-long barrier standing almost 12-foot tall has mostly been reduced to either slabs of graffiti-covered concrete like in Berlin’s East Side Gallery or to millions of spray-painted tiny pieces sold to tourists looking for a physical reminder of their trip.
The crowds who took to the wall armed with hammers on November 9, 1989 could not have known that the pieces they were chiselling away would, one day, become the foundation of successful businesses.
Arguably no business selling pieces of the Berlin Wall is more well known than that of Volker Pawloski, which in 2014 was estimated to supply around 90% of Berlin’s gift shops.
At 62 years of age, Pawlowski has spent nearly three decades selling pieces of the wall, having launched his namesake Pawlowski Souvenirs & Postcards business in 1992.
The West Berlin native has now semi-retired from the business day-to-day operation and no longer gives interviews. Julian Sacha has taken over the management of the website der-berlinshop.de and is now charged with passing down its origin story.
Pawlowski, Julian explains, was not the first person to sell pieces of the wall—indeed, there were many who did so. Sellers who would congregate around the Brandenburg Gate—an area that was mostly off-limits while the wall stood, but that soon regained its vibrancy as one of the most central parts of the city after the fall of the GDR—to tempt tourists to bring home a piece of Berlin’s history.
Pawlowski, however, found a way to stand out from the competition: He was the first person to package the pieces. “This was the start of his business. He started to glue pieces of the wall into acryl glass,” Sacha says, adding: “Also, he invented a small plastic container in which you can put a piece of the Berlin Wall and put it into a postcard.”
Pawlowski’s business is now employing up to ten people, depending on the time of year—in winter, Sacha says, there is less demand in the souvenir market. Overall, demand for pieces of the wall has gone down too.
“We can see that the demand is slightly decreasing during the last 10 years. At the anniversary in  2009, demand was higher than it is now,” he notes.
In recent years, the business has expanded to include other, more traditional kinds of souvenir products in their range of offerings—from T-shirts to magnets—building on their existing relationship with local souvenir shops.
Pawlowski’s business is facing increased competition, as well as counterfeits. The businessman told TheLocal in an interview in 2009 that he could recognize the real pieces of the Berlin Wall as the concrete with which it was built has “a unique structure.”
Five years later, journalists at the ExBerliner publication tested various pieces of the wall sold in souvenirs stores around Berlin and found that all but one of Pawlowski’s pieces tested authentic—the fake one came from a postcard, which the businessman said he outsourced to subcontractors, partially explaining the presence of the imitation.
Most of the pieces packaged and spray-painted in Pawlowski’s workshop were secured in 1991, thanks to a friend who owned a construction company that had a contract to dispose of the wall parts. Pawlowski then rented storage space to host them.
“He still has two places where we store the wall parts. In our company yard we have around 30 parts as well as many parts that are already broken into pieces,” Sacha says.
The supply is limited, but new parts pop up, too. “We still sometimes get offers from people that also have parts of the wall,” Sacha explains, estimating that their current supply will last them seven to ten years—enough to celebrate the next landmark anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.
-
Forbes will host the Under 30 Europe Summit, the gathering of the world’s most innovative young leaders, in Berlin from December 1 to December 4. Find out more here.