In his 147-page decision on Wednesday, Judge Paul Engelmayer of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, an appointee of Barack Obama, said he “vacates HHS’s 2019 Rule in its entirety.”
Judge Engelmayer wrote:
“The Rule represents a classic solution in search of a problem,” he said.
As the Washington Post reported, New York Attorney General Letitia James, who led the challenge, argued, “the rule illegally favored the personal views of health-care workers over the needs of patients and threatened to hobble the ability of state-run health-care facilities to provide effective care.”
James tagged the Trump HHS rule the “refusal of care rule.”
“The refusal of care rule was an unlawful attempt to allow health care providers to openly discriminate and refuse to provide necessary health care to patients based on providers’ ‘religious beliefs or moral objections,’” she said in a statement.
The rule, which was challenged by 19 states and Planned Parenthood, would have taken effect on November 22. The Trump administration announced the final rule on the National Day of Prayer in May. The rule would have protected healthcare providers from discrimination when they exercise their conscience rights in programs funded by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), the department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) said.
“Finally, laws prohibiting government funded discrimination against conscience and religious freedom will be enforced like every other civil rights law,” said OCR Director Roger Severino in May, adding:
The rule would have enforced approximately 25 provisions already passed by Congress that protect the conscience rights of healthcare professionals, but which some faith groups said were not carried out due to confusion or lack of awareness within the healthcare community.
Grazie Pozo Christie, MD, policy advisor for The Catholic Association, said, reacting to the decision:
Stephanie Taub, senior counsel for First Liberty Institute, said the judge’s decision “leaves health care professionals across America vulnerable to being forced to perform, facilitate, or refer for procedures that violate their conscience.”
Father Frank Pavone, national director of Priests for Life, said in a statement that “freedom of conscience is a fundamental aspect of our human dignity.”
“Once again, a judge appointed by a Democrat is standing in the way of protections for people who cannot be involved in any aspect of abortion because of deeply held religious beliefs,” he said. “Once again, the importance of having a pro-life White House and a pro-life majority in the Senate is underscored.”