Threatens water diviner at gunpoint for ‘trespassing’ A 42-year-old water diviner was allegedly threatened at gun point by the husband of a gram panchayat chairman in Bannerghatta over a trivial row. S Sridhar is said to have been checking for a water source at a disputed land near Jigani when Srinivas, who claim to be the owner of the land, picked up a fight with him for trespassing into his property. Srinivas is said to have attacked Sridhar, who while defending himself is said to have torn Srinivas’s clothes. This made Srinivas furious and he went to his car and brought out a gun. He is said to have threatened to shoot Sridhar. A case has been registered by the Bannerghatta police under the Arms Act. Sridhar is a resident of Jigani and was on the land near Sakalavara lake around 10.30 am on Monday. “There is no issue between Srinivas and me. I had gone to check the water source on the plot as directed by a person known to me. I do not know what triggered the assault and the shooting threat. He spoke to me abusively and was aggressive too. When I asked him to tone down his language, he attacked me. As I defended myself, his clothes were torn. That is when he threatened to shoot me. I left the spot immediately and came to the police station,” Sridhar told Mirror.
The beatings did not end there. Srinivas landed up at the police station and kicked me for going to the cops. The police had to rescue me from the assault.
–S SridharOnlookers are said to have come to the Sridhar’s rescue and asked him to move away from the spot. He then went to the jurisdictional Bannerghatta police station. “The beatings did not end there. Srinivas landed up at the police station and kicked me for going to the cops. The police came to my rescue and warned him for assaulting me. As I developed severe chest pain, I went to the Jaydeva Hospital and am still undergoing treatment,” he added. Before leaving to the hospital, Sridhar managed to file a complaint against Srinivas. A case under the Arms Act of 1957, attempt to murder (IPC 307), causing hurt (IPC 323), wrongful restraint (IPC 341), Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace (IPC 504) and criminal intimidation (IPC 506) has been registered against him.