SC verdict on Ayodhya expected anytime before Nov 17States told to tighten security in sensitive areas; prohibitory orders have been imposed in Ayodhya till December 28NEW DELHI The Centre has asked all states to remain alert ahead of the Supreme Court verdict on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title dispute and ensure security in sensitive areas, officials said on Thursday. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has also dispatched around 4,000 paramilitary personnel for security in Uttar Pradesh, particularly in Ayodhya. The Railway Protection Force on Thursday issued a seven-page advisory to all its zones, asking employees to remain alert, cancelling leaves. A general advisory has been sent to all states and Union territories asking them to deploy adequate security personnel in all sensitive places and ensure that no untoward incident takes place anywhere in the country, a home ministry official said. The ministry has rushed 40 companies of paramilitary forces to Uttar Pradesh to assist the state government in maintaining law and order. A company of paramilitary forces comprises about 100 personnel. The local administration has imposed a ban on any event marking a “victory” or “mourning” over the judgment. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 have been imposed in Ayodhya till December 28. Four security zones have been created in Faizabad district that will be manned by the Central Para Military Forces (CPMF) and the civil police. District Magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha has ordered against use of social media to “insult” deities or to install idols and hold processions related to Ram Janmabhoomi. PM Narendra Modi has asked his council of ministers to refrain from making unnecessary statements on the issue and maintain harmony in the country. Religious leaders of both the Hindu and the Muslim communities have also issued statements asking people to neither resort to violence nor to celebrations after the verdict is delivered. The VHP has also appealed to its cadres to remain calm and refrain from creating an atmosphere of celebratory frenzy. In a letter to its workers, VHP central vice-president Champat Rai said, "This (the verdict) should not be a matter of Hindus and Muslims. It is about accepting the truth. So, do not create a celebratory frenzy in society and nobody should be taunted." He noted that arguments of lawyers in the case and observations of judges indicate that "the verdict will be in the favour of truth" and that society will rejoice over the judgement. The SC is expected to announce its verdict in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid demolition case by November 17, the day of retirement of Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi who heads the five-judge bench that heard arguments in the case. █ VHP stops stone carving work for first time in three decadesAYODHYA In anticipation of the Supreme Court verdict, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad has stopped stone carving work for the construction of a Ram Temple here for the first time since 1990. All the artisans involved in the work have returned to their homes, said VHP spokesperson Sharad Sharma.
Pillars that the VHP plans to use for the Ram temple in Ayodhya
He said the decision to stop the carving has been taken by top leaders of the VHP, a Hindu right-wing organisation that has been at the forefront of the movement demanding the construction of a ‘grand temple’ dedicated to Lord Ram at the site of the demolished Babri Masjid. “All our proposed programmes regarding different activities of our outfits have been cancelled keeping in view the upcoming Ayodhya verdict,” he said. The carving of stones for the construction of a Ram Temple was started by VHP at the Ram Mandir Nirmaan Karyashala here in 1990 when Mulayam Singh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party was Uttar Pradesh chief minister. The carving work by artisans had been carried out uninterrupted since then. PTI█ Congress firms up its standNEW DELHI Not wanting a repeat of the political embarrassment it faced when party leaders spoke in different voices after abrogation of Article 370, the Congress is planning to formalise its strategy on the Ayodhya verdict to speak in one voice. The Congress Working Committee is likely to come up with a resolution on the Ayodhya issue. The consistent official line of the Congress has been that the party wants everyone to abide by the apex court verdict. However, contrary views are emerging within the party, with some leaders anxious about the political fallout of the verdict. But party managers are keen to ensure least damage this time round. A resolution is likely at the CWC to give clarity on the Ayodhya issue to all Congressmen, a leader said. The party has also cautioned its leaders not to make any comments in the media or public which could be damaging to the party’s political prospects. IANS