Nick Jonas has not taken a break lately. He's not only gotten married but also reunited with his brothers professionally, filmed the movie "Jumanji," and is currently on a world tour with Kevin and Joe. Incredibly, he somehow managed to find time to launch a new fragrance, JVxNJ Silver Edition, his third scent with John Varvatos. And instead of getting overwhelmed by the demanding schedule, the singer decided to try and capture it with his latest cologne. "It's probably the craziest it's ever been, and we wanted to put that energy into this fragrance," he told me at the JVxNJ Silver Edition launch event on November 7. "We think we've accomplished that with this one and are really excited for people to try it."
While the 27-year-old certainly seems to master everything he tries from music to acting, I wondered what he thought was the secret to his success in the fragrance world. "The main thing in my life has just been to trust my collaborators," he told me. "John has been great in that aspect. We've learned a lot from each other. I've certainly taken his lead on this and trusted his vision and come in and give my thoughts when I feel like I can be an asset."
Jonas added, "From the design concept to the way it smells, it comes down to the way it makes you feel. I'm able to speak to that even if I'm not able to speak to the very specific nature of the chemistry behind it."
Varvatos agreed saying that it's actually Jonas' lack of technical expertise in the industry that makes him so successful. "You don't need to be an expert because you're working with a nose that is an expert," Varvatos told me. "They're going to help you combine all of the notes and chemistry. But you do need to know how you feel about things. And Nick is very thoughtful about that."
Though the musician clearly has a passion for scent, I could help but wonder about his first love—music—and how the tour was going. He had nothing but positive things to say but did reveal some tour rules he created with his brothers.
"We now have an understanding that it's okay also to have personal time and to not spend every moment together," he said. "I think we were insecure that maybe our relationship would be affected by that in some way. And it's actually the opposite. You do need that time away from each other. We've got our own individual lives within the group set up. We love spending time together; there's no doubt about that. But we know how to give each other space now and when we need it."
The most important thing they figured out since last touring together, though, was how important their bond is. "There's nothing more important than that relationship," said Jonas. "No show is more important. No interview. As long as we're good, then all will be good even if that means pushing some things back to make sure that we can have a conversation. But we can't apply the pressure we used to."