Marcus Rashford said Manchester United must be more ruthless - despite the Red Devils sealing their place in the Europa League knockout stage with two games to spare.
Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side claimed their biggest win since their 4-0 opening day victory over Chelsea as Rashford scored along with teenage striker Mason Greenwood and Anthony Martial.
Rashford could have had a hat-trick in the first half but had to wait until just after the restart to score, and claimed United need to be more clinical in front of goal.
"I think it was a good performance but there are things we can improve on," said Rashford. "We managed to score three goals but it could have been a lot more.
"There were a couple of times where I was half a yard too forward, so it was a game of fine margins, but we're happy with the three goals.
"For me, it's about recognising it and trying to correct it in the next game, but I won't let it stay on my mind for too long."
Rashford heaped praise on Greenwood, 18, who set United on their way with the opening goal - his third of the season.
"He's done very well," said Rashford. "He just needs to keep knuckling down and working hard and the goals will come, because he has a lot of quality.
"We're pleased to have qualified, but we really want to finish in top position and we have two more games to do it so we are in a good position."
United boss Solskjaer agreed with Rashford, saying his side could have made the game safe much earlier than they did.
"We needed a win, but we needed a performance in which the boys wanted to go forward," said the manager. "We could have had loads more tonight, but it was a pleasing performance.
'You expect to win at home against teams like this, no disrespect to Partizan. We should have buried it in the first ten minutes, really. But going into half-time with a 2-0 lead, you're confident."
United midfielder Juan Mata added: "We needed a game like this, playing good football, scoring in the first half and enjoying ourselves.
"We did that for long periods and the fans are happy today and we have qualified.
"We are doing okay in this competition. We've qualified, which was the first objective, but we want to be top."