Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
SINGAPORE—The world of finance has a new reality, and this involves the use of new technologies that enable cross-border transactions to be faster and cheaper, which is ultimately beneficial to end-users.
On the first day of blockchain conference Swell, payment protocol operator Ripple CEO Brad Garlinghouse said his seven-year-old company has seen a “new reality unfolding” in the financial sector, as countries across the globe adapt digital solutions to simplify payments and cross-border remittances.
“This speaks to the commercial traction that we are seeing. For years, I think the industry as a whole has talked about the idea of blockchain technologies and how they can impact transactions,” he said. “Ripple’s focus on those transactions are correspondent banking—around enabling faster payments and lower costs for how liquidity can be managed is that new reality. It’s no longer is the idea.”
Ripple, which hosts the conference, is a technology company that uses blockchain to offer a frictionless experience in global remittances.
It operates RippleNet, which houses a network of financial institutions that use Ripple’s standardized solutions for sending and receiving payments. It also offers XRP, a digital asset that offers financial institutions a fast and cheap option for sourcing liquidity in cross-border payments. It is an alternative to pre-funding, which ensures “instant” settlement and lower exchange rates.
Ripple likewise operates on-demand liquidity (ODL), which leverages XRP as a bridge currency to eliminate pre-funding requirements for international payments.
“It’s no longer just a vision, no longer just an idea—using blockchain technology, not as a theory not as a concept. What Ripple is doing with these technologies and these digital assets is actually real and is expanding quickly,” Garlinghouse said. Today, the US-based tech company has over 300 customers, and has so far recorded a 10-fold growth in transactions this year through its network of banks, financial institutions and payments providers.
“Our vision remains the same today, the internet of value is something that step by step we’re seeing come to fruition,” Garlinghouse said. “What we defined is a mission—a mission of enabling payments everywhere every way for everyone.” Enablement, he added, is achieved through strong partnerships for interoperability not just among in-country providers, but among different territories.
Just a few months ago, Ripple entered into a partnership deal with MoneyGram International Inc. to enable the latter to use ODL for remittances from the US to Mexico and, more recently, the Philippines.
“For the first time ever, we’re settling currencies in seconds, and because of these results, we’re expanding our partnership with Ripple and are excited to announce that we have started executing foreign currency trades with the Philippine peso using ODL,” MoneyGram CEO Alex Holmes said.
This new reality of using blockchain to address friction in cross-border transaction can help spur commerce around the world. Technology, according to former Reserved Bank of India Governor Raghuram Govind Rajan, then plays the role of a lever for growth.
“Institutions sit on top of technology and then the question is how to get those institutions to reach out. There are many ways that technology can play a part; one of the biggest ways is by reducing the transaction costs of doing business,” he said.