Suspected bloodstains were cleaned from the floor where backpacker Grace Millane was allegedly murdered, a court heard.
An expert gave details about the gruesome discovery during the trial of a 27-year-old man accused of killing the British woman in New Zealand.
Scientist Dianne Crenfeldt, from the Institute of Environmental Science and Research, told the jury she had found two approximately circular probable blood stains.
She told Auckland High Court they were found between the bed and a wardrobe where the man accused of Grace's murder was staying.
The smaller of the stains was more circular and "could have come from a bucket", Ms Crenfeldt said.
She added: "The shape of the probable blood staining and the presence of blood on the floor provided strong support that clean up of blood had occurred in this area."
The Crown has alleged the defendant, who cannot be named due to a suppression order, murdered the young woman from Wickford, Essex.
He is accused of shoving her body inside a suitcase before burying her in a forested area outside Auckland.
The defence claims the death, on either December 1 or December 2, 2018, the date of Grace's twenty second birthday, was accidental.
On Thursday, security footage played for the jury showed Grace, who was on a round-the-world trip, visiting a number of bars in the city centre with the accused, where they drank alcohol.
Her friend Ameena Ashcroft, said she "thought something was out of place" when the young woman sent a series of messages on December 1.
Grace described wanting to "get smashed" with the man she had met on Tinder.
Security footage showed the pair kiss repeatedly at the Bluestone Room before walking arm-in-arm a short distance into the lobby of the CityHigh hotel, where the defendant was staying.
Grace was shown to follow the defendant out of the lift at 9.41pm.
It was the last time she was seen alive.
Her mother Gillian left the court in tears as detective Samuel Luker described a series of photographs found on the defendant's phone yesterday.
The defendant, wearing a navy blue suit and black shirt, did not react as Mrs Millane walked out of the courtroom.
Data from the man's phone showed he had used Google to browse websites for large duffel bags, suitcases and car hire.
The defendant's phone was also used to search for "flesh-eating birds" and "are there vultures in New Zealand?" days later, on December 5 2018.
The trial, expected to last five weeks, continues.