It’s safe to say that Venus Williams is pro when it comes to all things travel. In 2019, the four-time US Open Champion traveled to four continents, eight countries and 30 cities and she doesn’t plan on slowing down anytime soon.“I travel every week and I’m never home for more than a few days at a time, if I’m lucky a few weeks at a time,” Williams said at a Q&A hosted by American Express Travel Thursday. “Travel is very important to me.”
Williams has been an ambassador for Amex Travel since the 2016 US Open and was on hand at New York City’s storied The Greenwich Hotel to announce the credit card company’s top trending destinations in 2020.
“When I travel, I love exploring the city I’m visiting,” Williams said. “The properties available through American Express Travel’s Fine Hotels & Resorts program give me the opportunity to both relax and immerse myself in the local culture.”
According to Amex, the announcement of the top rated travel destinations is based on global Card Member booking data and highlights locations ranging from Buenos Aires and Cairo to Osaka and the Whitsunday Islands in Australia.
“I spend a lot of time in the room when I’m at a hotel so I have to have a good pillow, I have to have a nice comforter,” Williams said. “Those may sound like they’re small things but they’re also huge things when it comes to getting a good night’s rest.”
In addition to a soft pillow and cozy comforter, one thing Williams said she actively seeks out when she’s on the road is a pet friendly hotel room for her favorite travel companion, a small and fluffy Havanese named Harold.
“He loves to travel, he’s a world traveler and has his own frequent flier miles,” Williams said. It makes me feel at home when I bring him.”
When it comes to the destination she’s most eager to travel to in 2020, Williams narrowed it down to her top three.
“I have a few favorites but I’ve always wanted to go to Montana,” Williams said. “Also Whitsundays are on my list and Shanghai. I love China and I’ve never actually been to Shanghai, so I’m dying to go there.”