Leadership is more than a job title. It’s a set of skills you learn through experience. Throughout the history of our country, the U.S. Armed Forces have been a crucible for building leaders whose skills have carried them beyond the military world to success in the private sector.With Veterans Day right around the corner, it’s a good time to take a long, hard look at how veterans can use their hard-earned skills to thrive in the civilian business world. During the month of November, I’ll be sharing the stories of five veterans who have used the leadership skills honed in the military to fuel their career success. Special thanks to Tara Rae Bradford for helping to gather the great stories featured in this series.
J. Ryan Brewer, D.O., is a former U.S. Air Force flight surgeon. He is medical director of LasikPlus Austin and LasikPlus San Antonio and serves as the chief of ophthalmology for the South Texas Veterans Health Administration.
During his service as a USAF section chief in ophthalmology, Brewer performed thousands of corrective refractive surgeries to ensure mission-readiness for the best pilots in the nation. But this didn’t make the idea of transitioning to a civilian career any less intimidating.
Even though Brewer had performed the highest number of these surgeries in the Air Force each year he served and felt he was the best LASIK surgeon in the military, he knew LASIK jobs in the civilian world are rare and that good positions come up once in a generation, let alone in the market you call home.
“In the year I was preparing to separate from service I felt downtrodden, left behind and passed over for the opportunities in my field, but that’s where grit and a little cleverness can come in handy,” he said. “One thing military service taught me or at least reinforced in me is the value of grit — not the stuff in your boots, the stuff that gives you the resolve to never quit.”
“I identified the company that reflected my values, embodied my ambitions and fit my geographical desires,” he said. “LasikPlus did not have any opportunities for surgeons in Austin or San Antonio, Texas, but they did have an opportunity for a part-time optometrist listed on their website. For months I would check back in to the HR section on the LasikPlus site looking for my opportunity. Alas, no luck.
“Then I decided to make my own luck. I prepared an updated and immaculate resume and then submitted it, posing as an ‘eager optometrist’ for the part-time Austin opening. I attached an addendum stating that ‘I know this is an optometry position, but I am ready to do whatever it takes to show you I am the best LASIK surgeon in the country.’ Within a week, I got a call from the CEO of the company requesting a formal job interview with the C-suite staff.”
Thanks to Dr. Brewer for sharing his story. Check back soon for the next installment, and thank you, Dr. Brewer, for your service to our country!