If you’re thinking about upgrading the tech in your office, now is probably the best time to do so. November sales are in full swing, and while Black Friday and Cyber Monday are on the way, a ton of retailers have already announced a slew of awesome sales. With new prices popping up regularly, it’s hard to keep your finger on the pulse of where to find the best savings. That’s why we’ve rounded up our favorite home office tech on sale today, along with which retailers to shop them from. Using the guide below, you should be able to upgrade your entire home office for a fraction of the usual cost.
If you need an all-in-one device that can print, scan, fax, and so on for your home or small business, this is a great way to go. The device is sleek and stylish, so it should look great in any room, plus it’s able to handle pretty much anything you can throw at it. The OfficeJet 3830 can print up to 8.5 pages per minute, and it can store up to an impressive 250 pieces of paper. The printer is available for $59.99, which is $40 off its normal price of $99.99.
You might need something a little more capable, in which case it’s worth considering the Epson Expression ET-2750. This printer is also an all-in-one, with the ability to print, scan, and fax, and it comes with enough ink to print up to 6,500 pages of black-and-white documents. The printer is capable of printing up to 10.5 pages per minute, and it works wirelessly — which makes using it a whole lot simpler.
The Logitech MX Master 2S is consistently rated one of the best computer mice on the market, thanks to its ergonomic build, high level of functionality, and sleek design. Because it's such a great device, the MX Master 2S is normally pretty expensive at $99.99, but you can now get it for $68.89 straight from Amazon.
A seemingly small design change in this mouse makes a world of difference for remote workers. Located under the thumb, the Logitech trackball lets you move your cursor accurately across the screen without having to move your whole arm. This results in much quicker and precise control over your screen. It also means you can use the mouse without a desk underneath -- giving you complete flexibility to work from the couch, the armchair or even your bed.
This uniquely designed Logitech mouse is contoured to support every part of your hand, resulting in a comfortable, easy-to-use device. It makes sense for something that’s designed to be used anywhere, anytime for maximum enjoyment and versatility.
Shop Now
While the deal on this one is minimal, any discount is worth taking a look at considering how expensive Apple accessories can be. Unlike most computer mice, the Apple Magic Mouse 2 is built with a trackpad sensor that reacts much like other Apple products. This means you can intuitively swipe, scroll and zoom with the touch of a finger. Plus, whereas other mice often become defective because their scroll wheel breaks, there’s no risk of that happening here.
The mouse is completely wireless so you won’t have to use up one of your USB ports to enable it. This is a bonus for many latest-generation laptop owners, as companies seem to be limiting the number of ports in new computers in favor of thinner, more portable devices. Completely rechargeable, the Apple Magic Mouse should last over one month on a single charge. Sure you’re spending a little more upfront, but at least you’re not running to the store to buy new batteries every few months.
Shop Now
If you work from home and don’t yet have an external hard drive, you should consider investing in one. Not only will storing unused files on a storage device help your computer work more quickly, but it can prevent the loss of valuable computer files. This 4TB hard drive from Seagate comes with a two-year warranty and is equipped with two front USB 3.0 ports, making it easier for you to transfer files between devices. The best practice is to leave it plugged into your computer, as the hard drive’s automatic backup software keeps all your files synced and protected.
Shop Now