The W.P Carey Foundation has made a $125 million gift to the University of Pennsylvania Law School. In recognition of the award, described as the largest private gift ever received by a college of law, the University announced that its law school will be renamed the University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School.The gift will be used to advance several priorities including:
In addition, the Carey gift will be used to help develop a new emphasis on cross-disciplinary education involving connections between the law and disciplines such as business, medicine, the humanities, technology and politics and public service. And the Carey donation will add new support for the law school’s recently launched Future of the Profession initiative.
Finally, the gift will enable Carey Law to support its alumni through a new program of lifelong learning. According to the release announcing the gift, alumni will have access to continuing education and mid-career counseling “tailored to all stages of their careers, with a specific emphasis on the many opportunities, challenges and transitions that will occur in their first decade as attorneys.”
The W. P. Carey Foundation has made many significant gifts to the University of Pennsylvania over the years, and numerous members of the Carey family have attended the University. The Foundation previously endowed the Francis J. and Wm. Polk Carey JD/MBA program, the William Polk Carey Prize in Economics, and the Francis J. Carey Chair in Mathematics. The Foundation also recently donated $25 million to Arizona State University for its W.P. Carey School of Business.
In accepting the gift, University of Pennsylvania President Amy Gutmann said, “The Carey family and the Foundation have deep roots at Penn as dedicated alumni and generous supporters of the University’s educational mission and its students. Through this partnership their philanthropy will benefit generations of law students, the profession, and the rule of law. We are grateful for and inspired by their leadership and their commitment to the University.”
The Carey Foundation gift is the latest in a recent round of mega gifts made to American universities this year, including a $100 million gift for student scholarships at the University of Virginia, a $150 contribution to the University of Utah for the study and treatment of mental illness, $750 million to the California Institute of Technology to study climate change, and $100 million for engineering to UCLA.