There are certain subjects that scientists talk about that just seem nonsensical and one of them is about the fundamental and underlying nature of matter.After all, anyone reading this has a great deal of experience with matter. You’re made of matter. You’ve breathed air, gone swimming, and smacked your funny bone. You know about gas, liquid, and solid. You know that solid matter is…well…solid, and you know that you can’t walk through a wall.
And yet modern science paints a much different picture. Solid isn’t actually solid. For instance, you know atoms and you have at least a vague picture of what they look like. They have a nucleus and are surrounded by electrons. The simplest picture of atoms is a bit like the solar system, with a sun and planets and a lot of empty space.
Atoms are also mostly empty. Each atom has a radius of about a hundred millionth of a centimeter (10-8 cm). The nucleus of an atom has a radius of a trillionth of a centimeter (10-12 cm). Thus the atom has a radius of about 10,000 times larger than the dense nuclear core. Converting that to volume, the volume of an atom is one part nucleus to one trillion parts empty space with tiny electrons zooming around in it.
Basically, if you were able to crush the matter inside a six foot tall person down so that the atomic nuclei were touching one another, that person’s height would be about the thickness of two pieces of standard photocopy paper.
If you’re basically empty space, how is it that things feel so solid?
If you Google a bit on the internet, you’ll often find explanations that basically say that what’s going on is that the space between atoms is filled with electric fields and that the electric fields repel one another. This explanation is similar to what happens if you take two magnets that repel one another and try to push them together. The closer you push them together, the harder they push back. In this explanatory picture, the empty space inside atoms is filled with these forcefields and the forcefields repel one another. And there is a tiny sense to which this explanation is true, but it’s far wronger than it’s right.
A more correct explanation arises from some interesting and counterintuitive quantum behavior. It starts with the fact that nuclei are surrounded by electrons and electrons are a class of particles called fermions. Fermions are fundamentally antisocial and it’s impossible to have two identical fermions in the same place at the same time. Metaphorically, electrons are the cats of the subatomic world – standoffish and aloof. (This is to be contrasted to another class of particles called bosons, which are more like puppies. The more the merrier is their motto.)
The fermion nature of electrons is crucial to explaining why solid things are solid. Electrons surround nuclei in a series of fixed configurations. Further, electrons have two kinds of spin, clockwise and counterclockwise. Each orbital can contain at most two electrons, one of each kind of spin. Try to put a third electron in the orbital and one of the others has to leave.
And, of course, if that one has to leave, it has to go somewhere and that somewhere is already occupied by another electron, and so it goes. The only place that is unoccupied in an atom are higher energy levels, which means that for one solid object to pass through another solid object, you’d have to raise the energy of all of the electrons in all of the atoms. And we’re not talking a little amount of energy. It’s a lot. How much? Well, answering a bit glibly, so much that solid matter repels other solid matter. And the answer has to be a bit glib because the numerical value depends on the material.
It may not matter to your daily life to understand exactly why you can’t walk through a wall. After all, you could try a couple of times and then simply put it on your list of things not to try. But for those who are interested in understanding why things are the way they are, the nature and behavior of solid matter is worth knowing. An object that is experientially solid is actually empty space, filled with forcefields, and inhabited by antisocial subatomic particles that take energy to displace. And it is that required energy that makes things solid. The level of abstraction increases with each tier of understanding. And yet it’s all true and it says something very profound about our ability to understand very non-intuitive things.
Mind blown.