You’ve tried all the sleep expert-approved tricks: Going to bed the same time every night, keeping your room cool and dark like a cave, and powering down electronics so the blue light doesn’t disrupt you. Still, those ZZZ’s are evasive. It’s time to call in some back up. As your body clock adjusts to Daylight Savings, these 7 products can perform Sandman-like duties and help you get to sleep … and do so fast.White Noise Machine
A white noise machine can create a steady hum that helps block out more jolting sounds, whether that’s the crescendo of your partner’s snoring or the honks and beeps of city traffic. A note of caution, though: If you are a light sleeper, you might want to avoid the nature-like settings that are common on sound machines, even if “ocean” or “meadow” types of settings sound peaceful. That’s because they have varying pitches, which could end up keeping you awake. When you’re shopping for a white noise machine or soothing fan, consider whether it fits in with your bedroom decor as its something you’ll probably keep on your nightstand.
Our Picks:
Snooz White Noise Machine, $79.99, Snooz
Wind Curve tower fan, $70, Lasko
Melatonin
The hormone that helps regulate your sleep-wake cycle is known as melatonin. Interestingly, it’s also found in some foods like tart cherries, pomegranates, cucumbers, asparagus, rice, barley, walnuts, sunflower seeds and flaxseed. Because melatonin is naturally occurring in some foods, it’s not subject to the same regulations as other hormones are, and you can find melatonin supplements in stores. Research suggests that melatonin best improves sleep if you have jet lag or are a shift worker, according to the National Sleep Foundation. But, some studies show that melatonin can also help you fall asleep faster and reduce the number of times you wake up at night.
Our Picks:
Hum Beauty zzZz, $1o, Hum Nutrition
Pink Moon Milk Collagen Latte, $49, Poosh
Black Out Curtains
Have you ever noticed how much attention high-end hotels pay to helping you get a good night sleep. The comfy mattress and luxe pillows help. But those black-out shades that keep the sunlight from shining in before your alarm goes off go a long way, too. Why not try installing some at home, in your bedroom? Your not limited to dark shades, either, because it’s the blackout lining that’s blocking the light.
Our Pick:
Classic Flax Linen Curtains with Blackout Lining, starting at $52 at Pottery Barn
Pillow Spray
Bring a spa-like aromatherapy experience into your bedroom with a pillow spray. Look for one that has aromas that are scientifically proven to help promote relaxation. A 2016 study published in “Complementary Therapies in Clinical Practice,” for example, found that bergamot, sandalwood, frankincense, mandarin, and lavender help two thirds of study participants achieve better sleep.
Our Picks:
ThisWorks Deep Sleep Pillow Spray made with Lavender, Vetivert and Camomile, $29, Amazon
Calming Healing Oil, $14, Thistle Farms
Sleep Mask
A nightstand essential, well-made sleep masks can pull double duty. They can help keep out light so you can feel well-rested when it’s time to wake up, and ones like Crane & Canopy’s Silk Sleep Mask can help reduce dark circles under your eyes. This item was also featured in the latest “Julie’s Got It” television segment.
Our Pick:
Silk Sleep Mask, $39, Crane & Canopy
Cooling Mattress
Whether you get sweaty at night or are having hot flashes, a mattress that’s designed to keep you stay cool can help you sleep more comfortably. Cooling mattresses are made typically made with gel foam, shredded latex or bamboo. Tempur-Pedic’s new Breeze collection uses exclusive technology with four levels of cooling materials.
Our Pick:
Tempur-BREEZE, $3,000 and up, Tempur-Pedic
Weighted Blanket
According to a few studies, weighted blankets can offer a “deep pressure” experience that can reduce cortisol and relax users. According to a recent Forbes Finds post, the blankets are growing in popularity for those looking for some shut eye.
Our Picks:
Purple + Gravity Weighted Blanket, $299, Purple
Cool Cotton Weighted Blanket, $169 for Queen, Baloo
Luxury Weighted Blanket, $159 for Queen, Nest Bedding