If energy efficiency were a person, it would have eaten lunch alone at its high school cafeteria. It would have been the opposite of those fossil fuel jocks, who hip-checked efficiency into lockers, and likely on friendly terms with the hipster renewables bunch, who were too busy listening to bands you've never heard of and drinking cold brew to ever pay much attention.
But efficiency doesn’t care. Efficiency has parents who love it very much and does exceedingly well at academics. And one day, it knows it will go on to bigger and better things.
To this day, efficiency continues to be quiet and brilliant. According to analysis from Amory Lovins, gains in energy efficiency have done 30 times more in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions than renewable energy.
Yet you wouldn’t know that by what gets the most airtime. A quick look into Google trends shows that efficiency gets Googled about a tenth of the amount of either "wind" and "solar."
This week, the International Energy Agency (IEA) released its annual look at energy efficiency, which revealed that the world’s energy use improved by only 1.2 percent — the third year in a row when the rate has weakened. That puts us in an energy efficiency recession of sorts.
It’s a strange trend, as affordable technologies are available that would pay for themselves in reduced energy costs. It’s also a concerning trend, as this rate is far too slow to meet climate goals, which require a 3 percent annual improvement in efficiency gains.
The IEA highlights several factors behind the energy efficiency recession, including:
Many companies understand the business case for increasing energy productivity (getting more out of a unit of energy). It puts them in line with sustainability goals while saving money.
Climate Group’s EP100, a corporate commitment program that encourages companies to become more energy efficient, has 57 signatories. While that’s super, and includes some big names such as H&M and Hilton, it is about a quarter of the number of companies that have committed to the sister commitment RE100, which has 207 companies committing to 100 percent renewable energy.
It’s a pity energy efficiency gains isn’t one of the central battlegrounds for emission reductions. It is uncontroversial (actually one of the few energy issues that enjoys bipartisan support) and could do a lot for the climate and the economy.
Through efficiency alone, IEA says we could get 40 percent of the way to the Paris climate goals. And if we were to have reached a 3 percent increase in efficiency during 2018, that would have generated an additional $2.6 trillion of economic output globally.
According to Lovins, we are just scratching the surface of how efficient we can be, with innovations that are not only technical, but in design, business models and finance.
If energy efficiency is a win-win, why isn’t it a higher priority?
I have two ideas:
What do you think it would take to make deep energy efficiency a priority for the private sector? Let me know: golden@greenbiz.com