Once a year we ask our employees to come together for a day-long thought experiment on Dia de Muertos, Day of the Dead, a time of reflection and renewal in the culture of our company’s founder. The timing has the advantage of coming before the holidays when clients become less available and schedules become harder to sync. We ask one question: What if we started the company today? The process is illuminating, sometimes a little scary, but, ultimately, always uplifting. We break the day down into three parts:
By the end of the day, we’re invariably energized and refocused. We feel like we’ve created a brand-new company to take on the fresh new challenges of the marketplace. Here’s a quick walk through our methods.
1. Successes and failures. We like to start with our successes for the year. Creative people are always really hard on themselves, so, counterintuitively, this is the most difficult part of the day. Once we start listing them, though, we realize that our successes are always numerous, and usually unexpected. There might be a new client, a new product, even a new division. This year, one of our employees brought an interest in animation which led us to start an animation division, a decision that is already paying big dividends, not only financially, but in the social media space. We’ve started working with some L.A. based creatives agencies in ways we would have never dreamed possible before our designer inspired us to start the new division. I’ve found over the years that most big successes are completely unexpected and could never have been anticipated in the business plan.
We’ve had some failures, too. Every year we have clients move on, either because a key player leaves or another change, usually beyond our control, happens. We rarely anticipate these changes, but we try always to be ready for them. We learned long ago that becoming dependent on clients always sticking with you is a recipe for complacency and financial heartbreak. We treat each account as though we need to earn it again every day (because we do). I never forget the lesson I learned in history about how 16th century Spain’s reliance on easy gold and other riches from the New World led to temporary world domination, but ultimate dissipation. Upstart England sailed circles around their lumbering armada at the end of the century, bringing on the long slow process of Spain’s decline as a world power, while scrappy little England grabbed a big chunk of the new world and created Shakespeare, to boot. We study our failures not to wallow in them, but to learn from them and stay nimble.
2. What if? We pass out sticky notes to our employees and set a timer for one minute to get top-of-mind thinking for the next few items. The questions change every year, but the overall theme involves exploring ways we can reinvent our firm in light of technological, social, and political change.
This year we asked: What’s a great brand and why? There were some obvious answers like Apple and Netflix, but there were also some less likely choices, including the band KISS, who made the list because they have become a branding juggernaut, and the artist Banksy—has there ever been a brand that used mystery more effectively than this artist? That suggestion came from our art director, who knew and worked with Andy Warhol in New York.
What should our digital footprint look like? Most companies these days spend a lot of time planning ways to use Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, and Facebook, but how much time is enough? What’s the goal? Which platform is best for our company? How does a bigger social footprint improve the bottom line? I recounted a blog post I came across about a photographer who used trolling on the internet to drive his search ranking up, which led to significantly more business for him. Obviously, this is not a practice that a responsible company would want to use, but it’s an important point to understand in this world where an algorithm change can drastically affect business results.
What’s the most effective way to drive sales? In a world where everyone is tethered to digital devices all day long, how do you cut through the clutter and get on customers’ screens? One of our managers told the story of Amazon developing Prime, not just to provide faster shipping, but to keep customers from clicking around to competitors to search out the best price. Amazon has brilliantly realized that they’re not selling products, but peace of mind and time itself. If a customer trusts you and knows that you’re obsessive about being the best in your industry, you’ll likely keep them from shopping around to competitors, which can give you a sales and price advantage.
We write answers on the notes, a practice we learned from Creative Confidence, a book by brothers Tom and David Kelley, the leaders of Stanford’s famed “D” (or Design) school, and paste the notes to the wall. Then we used an old-fashioned grade school chalkboard to take notes as we go around the room and discuss. The result is a freewheeling ideafest, that, in addition to providing some fantastic insights into our employee’s minds, lets our team know that we deeply value their lived experience in the field with clients.
3. Action Items. After a half-day of jamming ideas, followed by lunch, we gather for a final hour to decide which ideas warrant short or long-term changes in the company. We compile those items into a list on the chalkboard to be discussed by whichever division the idea affects. We ask teams to come back to us in two weeks with a one-page summary that includes: competitive analysis, implementation plan, budget and timeline.
While our day of ideas starts with dozens, sometimes hundreds, of data points and examples, we try to limit action items to the top two or three that are important and possible, and can truly change the company.
While we celebrate Day of the Dead in our personal lives, we celebrate the Day of the Different at work—a way to remember successes, mourn losses, and prepare the business for a new day dawning ahead in the coming year.