Qobuz, the Hi-Res music-streaming service that launched in the U.S. back in February, has taken the bold step of deleting its MP3 streaming service and replacing it with a single plan that offers unlimited access to the Qobuz Hi-Res and CD lossless catalog for just $14.99 a month (and as low as $12.50 per month with a yearly plan).By offering its top-quality tier at one competitive monthly price, Qobuz has upped its game in the battle to sign up new subscribers who want the highest quality digital music source at a price that’s not much more than regular MP3 streaming services.
Neil Young, one of the earliest supporters of Hi-Res in the music industry with his ill-fated Pono service stated in a press release, “Qobuz sounds great! Qobuz was one of the earliest Hi-Res streamers. Their new offer is another big step towards making Hi-Res streaming available at the same cost as MP3 streaming today.”
The new Studio Premier plan from Qobuz is a time-limited promotion available to the first 100,000 new Qobuz subscribers (plus existing users), and each will receive unlimited access to over 50 million tracks in certified Hi-Res or CD lossless quality, along with Qobuz’s exclusive, in-depth editorial and metadata content, for $14.99/month, or $149.99 for an annual subscription. Qobuz will still offer its premium Sublime+ plan, now priced at $249.99/year, which includes all the streaming offerings, plus a deep discount on Hi-Res download purchases from the Qobuz store.
“MP3 is bad for music, artists, and listeners - so Qobuz is saying ‘no’ to MP3 and now offers only real studio quality in one accessible plan,” stated Dan Mackta, managing director of Qobuz USA, in the press release. “Studio Premier is a special offer we’ve been dying to make. With the new plan, we will be pouring gasoline on the growth that has been kindled by our unique relationships in the premium audio hardware and retail industries. Our unequaled editorial and curation in specialist genres and our focus on the culture around music and audio will continue to create value for listeners. Qobuz does all this because our users’ passion for music is worth it!”
Founded in 2007, Qobuz is a Paris-based commercial online music streaming and downloading service is now live in eleven European markets and the U.S. Qobuz offers music in a range of genres as well as exclusive editorial content independently curated by a team of experts. Qobuz offers genuine CD quality audio of more than 50-million tracks plus millions of Hi-Res tracks up to 24-bit/192 kHz resolution.
This is a bold move by Qobuz to boost its subscriber numbers in the U.S. Although premium music streaming platforms have been around for some time, in the form of Tidal, Deezer and now Qobuz, audiophiles have been reluctant to sign up with many preferring still to buy CDs or vinyl and hold on to physical media. With the availability of so much excellent audio equipment with streaming platforms built-in, it’s getting easier and more convenient for those who care about sound quality to switch to streaming. This latest offer provides unlimited access to the Qobuz catalog for the same price as purchasing one or two CDs a month. It will be interesting to see if Tidal responds with a similar price cut to draw in new users.