Critically-acclaimed producer Audien boasts an illustrious career to date, as he has headlined numerous music festivals around the world and released hit tracks such as “Something Better” and “Never Letting Go.” It may come as a surprise to some that this renowned artist is only now releasing his debut album: ESCAPISM. The album displays Audien’s versatility as an artist, because he has tracks that span genres: “Reach” is a drum and bass song while “Buzzing” showcases the classic upbeat and fun house sound that he is known for. “The whole thing I wanted to portray on the album was diversity and versatility,” he says. “As a producer, I always try to make different styles of music and the album is a really mixed bag. It’s so many different genres and so many different styles, and I just wanted to capture that.”
Audien adds that it took him three years to create the album, and he chose the name because he was inspired by a video gamer movie from his past dubbed “Unlimited Escapism.” The idea of escapism is tied in with the album: in the track “See You On The Other Side,” the lyrics “I feel so free” can be heard and is a subtle nod to this idea. The producer notes that this theme will also be shown in his tour that accompanies the album because he will use visuals of nature in his production, which he says he was inspired to do from the movie.
Though Audien has been touring for eight years, the Escapism Tour will be his first headlining tour. He says it has taken him this long to have his own headlining performance because he didn’t want to do one until he had a proper body of work to support it. According to Audien, the nature-focused visual production will be accompanied by “washy, melodic and emotional” music to create a “trip into nature” theme. He adds that he decided not to go the live show route because a DJ set felt more true to who he is as an artist.
“For the ESCAPISM tour, it’s really going to be a more heightened, more dialed in and more special version of what I’ve been doing for years,” he says. “I really just wanted to put on a really, really amazing, essentially like a rave, like a proper DJ show. All my new music is still that style of music because that’s what’s true to me. And instead of just faking it, I wanted to be true to myself but just be better. I think that this tour is going to show progression and it’s just going to be really all the best stuff that I love about shows.”
When asked what escapism means to him: “The word ESCAPISM means a lot to me. It’s just about being out in the world and getting away from you usual life, you know?,” Audien says. “I wanted to do that with the shows and I wanted to do that with the music. I think that when you put on music it should take you out of your current life. It should take you into a completely different mindset and just sort of make all your problems go away, and in essence that is what escaping is to me. I kind of wanted the branding to be reminiscent of that feeling and I hope the music does that, too. That’s really why I make music—is to help people get through this stuff.”