Facebook Twitter Pinterest WhatsApp Linkedin ReddIt Email Print Tumblr Telegram Mix VK Digg LINE Viber
The chairman of the House Committee on Metro Manila Development on Wednesday said his panel will look into the possibility of requiring water concessionaires to secure legislative franchises.
Manila Rep. Manuel Lopez, the panel chairman, warned the Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage Systems (MWSS) and Manila Water Co. and Maynilad Water Services Inc. of the possibility of requiring private water agencies to obtain legislative franchises amid the water supply problem housing Metro Manila and nearby areas.
Lopez said congressional oversight may be exercised on water concessionaires if they will secure legislative franchises, or a license to operate that is exclusively granted by the government.
“There must be an assessment of a water provider’s true capability. If our providers in the water sector cannot [deliver], it is time for us to declare a state of emergency. Congress can easily declare this emergency,” he said.
Lopez noted that despite the billions of pesos in net profit collected by Manila Water Co. and Maynilad Water Services, their customers are still grappling with water supply problems.
“Unfortunately, they have not lived up to their commitment since they took over the water supply service in 1997. We acknowledge your investment but we also see your steady income,” the lawmaker told representatives of the firms during a hearing on the water-supply situation in Metro Manila on Wednesday.
He said Manila Water reported an annual income of P6.186 billion in 2016, P6.139 billion in 2017 and P6.635 billion in 2018.
Maynilad, the lawmaker said, reported an income of P6.17 billion in 2016, P6.8 billion in 2017 and P7.8 billion in 2018.
“There is nothing wrong in engaging in business. What is wrong is if the one engaged in business is getting greedy,” he added.
“We are also businessmen one way or the other, we understand you making money. But making an enormous amount of money, while there is a water crisis is not a nice thing to hear,” he added.