Are you’re tired of pumping your brain full of psychoactive stimulants every day so you have the energy to take on your school, work, or family responsibilities? Are you looking for a healthier and more effective way to boost cognitive function and mental stamina? If so, you need to check out the advanced cognitive enhancement supplements from the neuroscience experts at TruBrain. Their specially-formulated nootropics are clinically proven to improve your mental performance.
If you think you don’t already rely on psychoactive stimulants, think again. Caffeine is actually a central nervous system stimulant and the world’s most popular drug. Every day, 85 percent of Americans consume at least one caffeinated beverage. By far the most popular choice is coffee. In 2018, an estimated 64 percent of us drank at least one cup of Joe per day. The remaining 21 percent of daily caffeine consumption is split among tea, carbonated soft drinks, and energy drinks and shots, with the latter categories being more popular among adolescents and young adults.
Of course, there’s nothing wrong with caffeine when it’s consumed in moderation. Caffeine does a great job of making you feel more alert and awake by blocking the neurotransmitters in your brain that induce drowsiness. Caffeine also increases the production of dopamine, which produces a positive state of mind that enhances motivation. The problem is that a lot of people are so addicted to caffeine that they consume near-toxic levels on a daily basis, which can lead to side effects such as jitters, insomnia, headaches, and increased blood pressure. Also, caffeine doesn’t do anything to promote higher brain function.
What we need is a better way to stay sharp and focused.
That’s where TruBrain comes in.
TruBrain was founded by a former Unilever executive and a team of UCLA-trained neuroscientists who wanted to help everyday people boost mental output and clarity without the excessive use of stimulants. To accomplish this goal they created Brain Food and Ketones, two cutting-edge dietary supplements that support the biological conditions necessary for maximum cognitive performance.
Brain Food is a scientifically formulated blend of nootropics that has been clinically proven to enhance verbal fluency and improve both memory and learning. It works by increasing blood flow to your brain cells, bringing more oxygen and glucose to the neurons. This increases brain cell metabolism, thereby enhancing plasticity, which is a brain cell’s ability to forge new neural connections. TruBrain’s nootropics also modulate receptors in the brain, making them more receptive. This allows for faster and more efficient communication between neurons, which results in higher brain function.
And these cognitive enhancement supplements are just the beginning for TruBrain. The company recently announced a new product that combines its brain-boosting nootropics with the powerful anti-anxiety properties of CBD. And to jump-start initial production of their new CBD nootropics, TruBrain has launched a $1 million fundraising campaign on StartEngine that allows regular people to buy shares of the company and earn lifetime discounts on all TruBrain products.
Currently, TruBrain’s Brain Food is available in both drinks and snack bars.
Brain Food drinks are 1-ounce shots that combine TruBrain’s scientifically formulated nootropics with a unique blend of natural tropical flavors. They are intended for daily use and come in boxes of 20, 30, or 60. New customers can save 10 percent just by subscribing. You can also save an additional 10, 20, or 30 percent when you pre-order a three-, six-, or 12-month supply.
Brain Food Bars are 45g snack bars designed to satisfy your hunger while helping you power past stress, overcome mental blocks, and boost mental output. They combine TruBrain’s brain-boosting nootropics with delicious ingredients like cocoa, dates, and sea salt. Designed for the occasional snacker, Brain Food Bars come in boxes of 12 or 24. New customers can save 10 percent when they subscribe.
TruBrain’s other cutting-edge dietary supplement is Ketones. It’s designed to help you reach ketosis, providing more efficient energy for your body and your mind.
Normally the body’s primary source of energy is glucose, which it gets from carbohydrates. However, if you deprive the body of carbohydrates long enough it will go into ketosis, which is a metabolic state in which the liver breaks down fat into fatty acids and ketones. The ketones then replace glucose as the body’s primary fuel. Ketones are a more efficient fuel, requiring less energy for the body to use. And unlike glucose, ketones don’t rely on insulin for transportation, which eliminates a very complicated process that often results in sudden drops of energy that leave you craving more sugar.
In short, when your body is burning ketones, you’ll have more energy and a 70% more efficient brain metabolism, which results in higher brain function.
TruBrain’s Ketones is a chocolate-flavored powder that you dissolve in water. One scoop of the supplement contains 12g of a ketone called betahydroxybutyrate and gives you 10x your average ketone level, offering a more practical way to achieve a higher concentration of ketones than high-fat diets and fasting.
So if you’re looking for a way to achieve peak mental and physical performance without the jitters and crashes of traditional stimulants, take advantage of the latest advances in neuroscience and try TruBrain today.Futurism fans: To create this content, a non-editorial team worked with an affiliate partner. We may collect a small commission on items purchased through this page. This post does not necessarily reflect the views or the endorsement of the Futurism.com editorial staff.