It’s a grim statistic: about half of small businesses fail within five years. The main reason is the challenge with cash flows.But technologies like AI (Artificial Intelligence) can be a big help. They may even transform the business.
Yet there are enormous hurdles as small businesses do not have the resources–in terms of access to Big Data and technical expertise–to leverage AI. Instead, the technology has been mostly for larger businesses.
But Intuit wants to change this. Consider that the company has been investing heavily in AI and infusing the technology in its QuickBooks platform. In 2019, there has been a 60% increase in the number of employees working on AI, with 104 machine learning models in production and 447 patents filed in the field. Another critical advantage for Intuit is its massive trove of data, which is based on over seven million business users. This means that Intuit can analyze 68 million paychecks sent through payroll, 400 million invoices and $55 billion in online payments (there are over 26 billion touch points).
Here are some of the ways that AI is powering QuickBooks:
All this is not to imply that AI will solve all problems. The fact is that the technology is far from perfect. In other words, customers still want to talk to experts–which is especially the case with financial matters. This is why Intuit has launched QuickBooks Live Bookkeeping, which connects business owners with qualified bookkeepers (there is a monthly subscription fee). Note that about 40% of users of QuickBooks do not have an accountant.
But this new service is more than just about making a connection. An accountant can use video and chat to work with clients, providing a much more engaging experience.
“The vision for QuickBooks is to build an expert-driven, AI platform to make better decisions and improve outcomes,” said Alex Chriss, who is the Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Small Business Self-Employed Group at Intuit. “It’s all about leveling the playing field for small businesses.”