There is something to be admired about a car with a defined identity - a solid sense of purpose. So often modern cars, eager to please multiple customers, are character-confused. Not the Discovery Sport. Land Rover’s latest car is born to take a modest sized family on adventures, get muddy in the wild, but then return to the city to perform more humble tasks - the school run and weekly shop - with ease. The smaller sibling to the Discovery, this is a perfectly functional car that is powerful enough, not too damaging to the environment thanks to the “mild-hybrid” tech and, best of all, benefits from Land Rover’s advanced all-terrain capabilities.
This last element proves a winner on the small adventure I take to the Land Rover Experience Yorkshire, in the north of England, where the car’s talents shine. One of the highlights of owning a Land Rover (or not, since you can visit these centers regardless) are these controlled and choreographed adult adventure parks, set in picturesque wild landscapes, where trained drivers show you your car’s capabilities. Owners may never willingly choose to put their precious metal through the trauma – it can be harrowing seeing such refined objects climb rocky mountains and descend into rivers – yet it is educational. Besides it is huge fun.
All this is thanks to “Terrain Response 2”, available for Discovery Sports with four-wheel drive. The advanced tech automatically detects the surface you’re driving on and adjusts the set-up accordingly. Alternatively, the driver can manually set the system to Comfort, Sand, Grass-Gravel-Snow and Mud & Ruts to control hill climbs, descend slops and wade through deep water with ease. Another handy tech called “Ground View” makes the bonnet invisible by projecting camera imagery onto the upper touchscreen to show the driver a 180-degree view under the front of the vehicle. This comes into use tackling rough terrain, as I experienced on a few occasions, but also will prove very useful in navigating tight parking spots in cities.
The car I’m testing is diesel-powered - the nine-speed automatic 2.0 liter engine is capable of 180bhp, zero to 60mph in 9.4 seconds and a top speed of 125mph. If like me you live in a metropolis with diesel taxes, then there is a choice of a 2.0 liter petrol with 200 or 250bhp too. The “mild hybrid” technology is an option, offering a 48-volt system for electric drive at very low speeds. This is something Land Rover is offering on all its new cars before the plug-in hybrid range arrive later this year.
Much like the more city-friendly Evoque sibling I drove earlier in the year, there are some exciting technology to opt for on the Discovery Sport. “Smart Settings”, for instance, works with artificial intelligence algorithms to learn our preference and habits over time - adjusting seating position and steering wheel height before we enter the car. “ClearSight Ground View” is a digital rear-view mirror, whereby a camera, positioned on the roof, projects a flawless all-surround 360-degree view. This proves exceptionally useful when navigating the Yorkshire Dales National Park with its roaming cattle. Finally, the “Advanced Tow Assist” is a feature that essentially self-reverses the car when you have a trailer attached to the rear.
Priced from £31,575 (around $40,000), the Discovery Sport is firmly a family car. Its interior is modular offering a 5+2 seating arrangement - five fixed passenger spaces and two temporarily chairs that can be placed in the boot. The exterior design sees a noticeable refinement from the previous model, yet it retains the classic Discovery rising beltline and tapered roof. The slim LED headlamps at the front and rear, as well as updated grille and bumpers, add a premium touch too. The model I drive is the higher trim HSE model (there is an option of an S and SE, and a sportier R-Dynamic) with an expansive fixed panoramic roof that helps lighten up the cabin.
Inside offers a traditional leather-clad premium environment, but Land Rover is working on introducing more exciting modern luxury materials with a sustainable story in future models. Given the car’s adventurous nature, I feel it makes sense to explore materials from sportwear here. The marque’s latest infotainment interface, the twin touchscreen 10-inch Touch Pro Duo, features whereby tech is kept hidden from view, appearing only when you turn the ignition on, for a touch of digital detox when stationary. Customers can also ask for an “Activity Key”, a handy waterproof rubber wristband that allows you to enter the car without the need for a conventional car key, so you can park up and go for a run or a swim.
Land Rover makes SUVs very, very well. The marque is born to take passengers off road, with a portfolio so comprehensive, some of the recent models fill niches we never knew existed. Whereas the Range Rover family are SUVs firmly imagined for city life and the upcoming Defender is for the wilderness, this latest Discovery Sport’s modest looks veils the extreme technology and adventure capabilities that lie beneath. It really does have a sense of purpose.