Krewella Formed in 2007 in Chicago by sisters Jahan and Yasmine Yousaf, the Krewella duo exploded onto the music scene in the early 2010s with their electronic-powered sonic style, which tackles everything from headbanging EDM to emotional, electronic pop and beyond. As one of the few independent, woman-fronted, Pakistani-American artists in dance music, Krewella is one of the most successful electronic acts of this decade and has also been named in Forbes’ annual coveted 30 Under 30 list in the year 2016. And guess what? They are one of the two headliners of the ‘Main Stage’. Their 2013, debut album Get Wet was their breakout moment, and their 2016 Ammunition EP consolidated their position further. In June 2017, Krewella initiated their next creative phase by launching their own Mixed Kids Records imprint, named after their multi-racial background,and it soon delivered a powerful single called Team. After years of international touring and chart-topping releases, Krewella took a break from life on the road to refocus their time and energy on self-discovery. The result is a new sound: a refined take on dance music that encompasses diverse styles, cross-pollinates genres, and takes cues from their multi-cultural upbringing. Talking of their USP on stage, they incorporate a multitude of audiovisual elements with their live vocals, energy, and hybrid sets. Third Party Few acts in the electronic dance music scene command the same level of respect and attention as this British pair does. With over 60 million plays on Spotify and 70 million views on Youtube, the duo of Jonnie Macaire and Harry Bass knows how to pack a punch with their progressive house sets. Add to this, their incredible live productions, and euphoric tracks, including their most recent studio album Hope, as well as iconic anthems such as Live Forever, Have No Fear, and the collaborative Lions In The Wild. They started their career with remix duties for the likes of Tiësto and Swedish House Mafia, the latter soon invited the Essex boys to play at their iconic Masquerade Motel show in Miami, with a consequent performance at their ‘One Night Only’ event at Alexandra Palace. Later, they began to drop music under their own ‘Release’ label, which has supported upcoming talents and even dropped a podcast series, ‘Release Radio.’ So what should you expect from them? Laced with that signature Third Party sound, the eclectic pair are influenced by the timeless vocal twists of 90s and elements of 80, found in tracks like Everyday of My Life and Without You. Plus, Eric Prydz is a key inspiration behind their genre-crossing sounds. BOH!B DJ Boh!B is the new generation DJ artist, hailing from the hill town of Darjeeling. Hip-hop, commercial, Bollywood and chartbusters, he spins them all with great perfection. Tom Tyger Rising French DJ and music producer Tom Tyger was named the ‘Best French New Talent’ by DjMag last year and has been supported by David Guetta, Axwell, Nicky Romero, Sebastian Ingrosso and other biggies over time. His records on Axtone, Protocol recordings and Spinnin Records were heavily praised and played everywhere around the world. At only 26 years of age, Tyger is definitely one of the biggest acts to watch out in the genres of electro house and house music. To feature an event on this page, send the details and photographs to mybangaloremirror@timesgroup.com with the subject line ‘Unwind’