The new buzzword in business in 2019 was Environmental Social Governance (ESG), and the term is on track to become mainstream in 2020. It refers to a company’s commitment to do more than make a profit, such as actively strive to contribute positively to the environment or social causes and to conduct themselves responsibly. ESG has been brewing for a while, and is hitting the mainstream now, driven by united demand from employees, investors and customers. All three groups seem to have shifted from a passive to an active stance and are forcing companies to step up against climate change and social injustice. As the pressure became explicit, companies responded with a shift in operating principles, proving again the power of the conscious consumer in today’s market.
In adopting ESG, each company chooses its own areas of focus and must document its contribution to these publicly, either ongoing or, at a minimum, as a part of their annual reporting. Transparency itself plays a vital role.
ESG causes can be strong environment standards, such as sustainable natural materials, water conservation and CO2 reductions. Or they can be advancing social issues, such as diversity in workforce and leadership, human rights or poverty reduction. Or they can revolve around ethical corporate governance measures, such as anti-corruption and capped executive compensation.
Sustainable investing now counts for one in four dollars
Almost 25% of investment in the United States now goes into ESG companies. Between 2016 and 2018, investments in such companies surged with 38% growth and now total $12 trillion, according to the US SIF forum for sustainable and responsible investment.
In the investment world, terminology varies between sustainable investing, impact investing and responsible investing, all of which are ESG.
The demand is driven largely by regular people requesting sustainable options for their hard-earned savings from banks and pension funds. As a result, most banks now offer managed ESG investment options, enabling consumers to ensure their money isn’t powering destructive companies, such as oil, tobacco and large-scale polluters, with a single tick. The underlying motivator is that there isn’t much use for a decent pension in your retirement if the world is practically uninhabitable by the time you can collect on it.
Employees and consumers demand action
In 2019 we reached the tipping point for responsible consumer demand. Last year, in 2018, 48% of consumers said they would “definitely or probably change their consumption habits to reduce their impact on the environment” according to a survey by Nielsen, which also found that the values were reflected in actual spending with $128.5 billion spent on sustainable fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) that same year. This trend will continue to grow as it is driven by younger generations, such as millennials—of whom 83% say environmental sustainability is extremely important to them.
As consumers want to buy from responsible companies, employees want to work for them. In a survey of 2,285 American professionals across 26 industries and a range of pay levels, company sizes and demographics, 9 out of 10 employees said they were willing to trade a percentage of their lifetime earnings for greater meaning at work. Numerous studies have shown the same result—that retention and motivation of a company’s workforce depends on their feeling of purpose and meaning. As such, ESG also becomes a useful tool for talent management.
UN development goals can be a useful tool
The abstract nature of ESG means that some companies choose to connect their ESG efforts to the UN’s 17 development goals, as these are specific and concrete. Many companies select a couple of development goals and make concrete ESG policies in these areas. For example, they may phase out single-use plastic to reduce ocean pollution under the UN goal “Life Under Water,” or reduce emissions and pollution from production or construction as part of the UN goal “Sustainable Cities.” Using the development goals makes ESG tangible for employees and provides a clear starting point for the organization.
From my own experience as a board member, I recommend approaching ESG from such a pragmatic standpoint. Identifying a company’s ESG focus isn’t a separate exercise, but should be integrated into a company’s strategy alongside the core drive for profit. For this to be effective, the ESG focus must be tangible and achievable. Rome wasn’t built in a day, and no company will become a fully responsible business overnight. What is important is to start, and to be committed and transparent about it.
ESG is the new CSR
ESG will most likely replace CSR as the corporate vehicle for positive contribution. This is good news for both people and planet, because while CSR was often a disconnected department with limited resources, ESG is a fully integrated strategic objective that’s closely connected to the mission of the company. As such, it gains power as it’s integrated into daily operations and everyday decisions, which is where a company’s impact is practically determined. While this may seem like a hostile takeover of a dear agenda by CSR departments, this is actually good news for CSR professionals, who may experience a switch in title and job specs, but will get much closer to the CEO and strategic objectives of the company.
First steps
The first steps for you and your organization are to identify one or more focus areas, and then clarify how you can improve in those areas. Then make this quest publicly known. This process has been initiated by the employees in some companies, by gauging customers’ interests in other companies and, finally, by board request in other companies. So regardless of your role, you can start moving your company in the right direction, so you’ll be able to keep up with ESG demands from consumers, employees and investors too.