Post Malone’s newest album, Hollywood Is Bleeding, featured one of the most unique guest spots in recent years, the Prince of Darkness himself. Ozzy Osbourne’s featured performance on “Take What You Want,” may have not catered to the majority of his fanbase, but it’s certainly paved an unlikely new direction for the now 70 year old rocker. Andrew Watt, Post Malone’s producer, has helmed production for Ozzy’s upcoming solo album, Ordinary Man. Regarding his collaboration on Post Malone’s record, Ozzy has stated “It all started when Kelly [Osbourne] comes in and says, "Do you want to work on a Post Malone song?" My first thing was "Who the f*** is Post Malone?!" I went to Andrew [Watt]'s house and he said, "We will work really quick." After we finished that song, he said, "Would you be interested in starting an album?" I said, "That would be f****** great," but now I am thinking I don't want to be working in a basement studio for six months! And in just a short time, we had the album done.”
Marking the the debut single off Ordinary Man, “Under the Graveyard” sees a reminiscent production quality of Post Malone, but amalgamates Ozzy’s signature sinister ‘rockability.’ In addition to Watt’s talents as a producer, Ordinary Man will feature Watt on guitar duties, Guns n’ Roses’ Duff Mckagan on Bass, and The Red Hot Chili Peppers’ Chad Smith on drums. The track is the first new piece of music from Ozzy in nearly 10 years, and whilethe record has quite the variety of rock legends, it’s production offers a unique twist to the singer’s iconic discography.
Over the past decade Ozzy has arguably focused more on finishing Black Sabbath’s legacy, as 2013 saw the band’s final record, 13, which was followed by The End, Black Sabbath’s 2016 farewell tour. While metal’s pioneering act marked the end of their legacy, the Prince of Darkness himself has yet to announce his full retirement, despite proceeding with his solo farewell tour, No More Tours.
As for his final tour, Ozzy Osbourne’s health has remained a genuine concern over the last few years. The singer’s No More Tours campaign has repeatedly seen cancelled and rescheduled dates since it’s April 2018 start; Osbourne was forced to cancel all 2019 dates after taking an accidental fall in his home, whilst battling pneumonia. However, the singer is reportedly in good health and scheduled to return to the road spring 2020.