Emmerdale character Ellis Chapman has been recast just two months after Asan N'Jie was sacked from the ITV soap.
Ellis will now be played by actor Aaron Anthony, who is best known for his role in Sky series Delicious.
Asan was axed from Emmerdale in September after threatening to stab Hollyoaks star Jamie Lomas during a row at the TV Choice Awards.
Following his sacking, Ellis' sudden departure was explained as him heading to Dubai to work at Jessie's school to be a PE assistant.
However he will make an explosive return in December for a big story involving Al and Billy, in which tensions between the two threaten to boil over.
Actor Aaron said that he was "over the moon" to take over the role and teased the future for the character.
"Emmerdale is a cracking show with a brilliant cast that I'm over the moon to now be a part of," he said. "I know Ellis is a well loved character and I'm looking forward to continuing his journey and all that's in store for him."
Soap actors Asan and Jamie were caught coming to blows on camera two months ago in a furious exchange at the TV Choice Awards.
A source told The Sun at the time that the row is believed to have been sparked over one of N’Jie’s friends, with whom Jamie is currently said to be involved in a financial dispute.
The insider claimed: "Asan went up to Jamie and started goading him, saying things like, 'Alright, Jamie big b*****ks'."
A row between the men then ensued with Asan bellowing: "Do you think you are a f***ing big man? I’m going to f***ing kill you," before he was removed by security."
ITV confirmed that Asan had been sacked just days after the incident.
A spokesperson told Mirror Online on the Wednesday after the row on Monday 9 September: "ITV executives have met with him this morning and as a consequence Asan's contract has been terminated with immediate effect."
Asan said in a grovelling statement: "My behaviour at the TV Choice Awards was completely unacceptable and very much out of character.
"I sincerely apologise to everybody who has been affected especially Jamie Lomas, the whole Emmerdale team, our audience, ITV, my family, and the organisers of the TV Choice Awards.
"I am devastated, accept full responsibility for my actions and I am determined to learn from this."
The actor broke his silence in October , taking to Twitter to put a positive spin on the events and implied he was going to stick at acting.
"All the people who’ve reached out and had my back you’ll never know how much I appreciate you", he wrote.
"I’ve learned, I’ve grown and now I’m working harder than ever to finish what I started. Keep you’re circle tight and always fall forward! [sic]"
He added: "The universe tends to unfold as it should."
*Emmerdale airs weekdays at 7pm, with additional episodes on Thursdays at 8pm on ITV