Zabit Magomedsharipov was marked as a fighter to keep an eye on before he stepped into the UFC octagon. Signed to the UFC in May 2017 at the age of 26, Magomedsharipov had won and defended the ACB featherweight title in his two bouts before he put pen to paper to join the UFC. He was on an eight-fight winning streak at the time. Seven of those victories came via stoppage.His coach, Mark Henry, predicted big things for Magomedsharipov.
“He’s not a top 10 guy, he’s a top-five guy,” Henry told FOX Sports in April 2017. “He could be champ today. I’ve seen a natural in baseball, football, boxing, but never MMA. Just too many disciplines. He’s the first natural MMA fighter I’ve ever seen. He can do it all.
“He has all the other intangibles, too. Heart, toughness, gas, chin, mean streak, work ethic, sparring partner, size.”
Magomedsharipov opened his UFC run with two submission wins and one decision. He earned a fight-night bonus in each of those bouts. Magomedsharipov didn’t win a bonus in either of his next two outings, but he did earn victories in those contests, most recently scoring a decision win over Jeremy Stephens. Now 28, Magomedsharipov is the No. 5 ranked fighter in the featherweight division. He could be in line for a title shot if he wins his UFC Fight Night 163 matchup against Calvin Kattar. The bout headlines the fight card, which takes place Saturday in Moscow.
Kattar might not have the name recognition of Magomedsharipov, but the No. 11 ranked 145-pounder is a fighter who should be taken seriously. The 31-year-old also joined the UFC in 2017 and he too was on a good run heading into his first UFC bout. Kattar was 8-0 ahead of his July 2017 matchup with Andre Fili. Kattar won that contest and then went 3-1 over his next four outings. All three of those wins came via knockout. His two most recent victories have come in the first round.
Magomedsharipov might be the more well-rounded and flashier fighter, but Kattar has shown that his boxing skills can be a great equalizer inside the cage. If Kattar can get the win on Saturday, he probably won’t be next in line for a title shot, but his stock will increase exponentially and he should get a matchup against another top-five ranked opponent.
UFC Fight Night 163 takes place Saturday at CSKA Arena in Moscow. The prelims begin at 11 a.m. ET on ESPN+, the main card follows on ESPN+ at 2:00 p.m. ET.
Pick: Magomedsharipov