There are rumors doing the rounds that the CM will replaced with young leader by year-end A shadow fight for supremacy in the BJP and the government has kept rumour-mongers busy in the faction-ridden party in Karnataka. The latest rumour doing the rounds is that Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa will be replaced with a relatively young leader by the end of this year. The rumour took credence after two ministers made an oblique reference to the longevity of their government. Tourism Minister CT Ravi said that if there is no adverse development by December, he would come out with a new tourism policy by January 2020. On the other hand, Health Minister B Sreeramulu said that he is not sure about how long he will remain a minister. PC Mohan, a BJP MP (Bengaluru Central) dismissed rumours of Yediyurappa’s replacement and termed it as a figment of imagination of the Congress. “It is their (Congress) wishful thinking to make some gains ahead of the by-lections,’’ he said. But the truth is that there is no sync between the government (Yediyurappa) and the party (Kateel), which could hurt the BJP’s prospects in the by-lections. “Even after 100 days in office, there appears to be no homogeneity between the government and party on major issues,” said an insider in the BJP, who did not wish to be named. The release of an audio clip of the Chief Minister has further deepened differences between the camps, besides causing severe embarrassment to Yediyurappa. Prof Sandeep Shastri, a political observer and Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Jain University believes that there will be serious internal contradictions within the BJP in the coming weeks and months, particularly if there are by-lections. “Factions intensified after the party came to power under strange circumstances,” he said. Yediyurappa is keen on giving tickets to disqualified MLAs or to those suggested by them. There are two major factions in the BJP. While one is led by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, the other is led by BJP national organisation secretary BL Santosh. Many perceive Santosh to be operating through his nominee Nalinkumar Kateel, the State BJP president. Yediyurappa uses his camp followers like MLAs MP Renukacharya, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal to counter Kateel. To prove this factionalism, Kateel reinstated two BJP state office bearers, who were earlier suspended by Yediyurappa. He also didn’t allow the Chief Minister to have a say in the BBMP mayoral elections. On the other hand, Yediyurappa successfully deflected charges of his poor handling of the drought situation, through statements by Yatnal and Renkacharya, who time and again have criticised the Central leadership for tying the Chief Minister’s hands by not releasing funds. Prof Shastri said that this is quite natural as Central leaders were never interested in forming a government here. “They were keen on a fresh mandate and delayed the government formation initially. It is quite clear how the Central leaders subsequently tied Yediyurappa’s hands,” the analyst said. He also said that the central BJP leaders would have had gone for a fresh mandate along with Delhi and Jharkhand, if they had favourable results in Maharashtra and Haryana. “The stunted results in these states have made them adopt a more cautious approach,” he said, while stressing that it “is a matter of time of the leadership changing and the Chief Minister himself knows it”. Siddu worried about my ties with JD(S): BSYChief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday sarcastically remarked that his cordial relations with the JD(S) have become a cause of worry for Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah.Interacting with media, the Chief Minister said that he appreciated former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his son, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, for not politicising the flood and rain relief work. “Neither the people nor the elected representatives want another election. The JD(S) has come forward to extend support to the government. I appreciate their gesture. One should not mix politics with people’s welfare and development,’’ he said.Around two weeks, the Chief Minister spoke to Kumaraswamy in the guise of wishing him on Deepavali. Later, he is also said to have spoken to Gowda and sought his support. Both Yediyurappa and Gowda, though, have denied talking to each other over the phone. On Wednesday, Gowda dropped hints that he would support the BJP-led government in Karnataka, if such a situation arises. “There are no permanent friends or enemies in politics,’’ he said, adding that he could speak to both Yediyurappa and Siddaramaiah as they are not his enemies but just political rivals. BM was the first to break the news on the the new bonhomie between the sworn rivals Yediyurappa and Kumaraswamy on November 2.