Saurabh Srivastava
The residential real estate sector has been experiencing its most turbulent phase. NBFCs had been a dominant source of funding for developers over the last 3-4 years. However, in the wake of recent events in this sector, public sector banks (key source of funds for NBFCs) became wary of funding NBFCs, which in turn squeezed availability of project level funds in the hands of most developers.
At the same point in time, the economic slowdown has resulted in homebuyers deferring buying decisions. There is a lack of buyer confidence in under construction projects and consequently customer advances, a major source of cash flows for developers, have dried up in the absence of sales.
Close
These twin concerns, lack of liquidity in the hands of developers and lack of buyer demand, led to the current crisis.
In order to address the liquidity concern, the Government of India, in September, announced the creation of real estate stressed assets fund. While NPA and NCLT projects were initially kept out of the purview, the government on November 6  modified the scheme after consulting various stakeholders. Even as we await detailed guidelines, the broad framework, based on the latest Government announcement, is as follows:
As per the government’s own estimate, the fund will help in completion of 1,600 projects with 4.60 lakh stalled housing units. The availability of ready- to-move in inventory would boost the demand for houses and at the same time bring relief to lakhs of homebuyers awaiting delivery of their homes. Completed projects in turn will generate positive buyer sentiment and push future sales.
Further, not only will the stress fund address the liquidity issue and prevent some of these cases turning into NPAs/NCLT cases, it will also boost buyer confidence in under construction projects given these would be backed by a government sponsored fund. This boost to the real estate sector will also benefit ancillary industries such as steel and cement.
While the detailed rules, regulations and guidelines on the fund are yet to be released, there are some matters which may be considered by the government while framing these.
The jury is out as to whether the quantum of the realty stress fund would be sufficient to cover all stalled projects. The first step, however, in solving a problem is recognising the fact that the problem actually exists. With this initiative, the government has recognized and understood that an impetus is needed to revive the sector.
The key to the success however will be in its effective and speedy implementation. The government is yet to announce a definitive timeline for setting up this fund and delays beyond a point may defeat the purpose. Other measures, including those for boosting customer demand, making bank funding available to the sector, formulating an urban house rental policy etc. should also be evaluated. All these measures, together, will go a long way in reviving the sector and giving the necessary impetus to the economy.The author is partner, Grant Thornton India LLPSpecial Thursday Expiry on 10th 7th NovEarly Closure to The Great Diwali Discount. Last Chance to get Moneycontrol PRO for a year @ Rs. 289/- only Coupon code: DIWALI