By TG ShenoyEarlier this year, Red Bull in association with Futur/io, the European Institute of Exponential Technologies & Desirable Futures, ran a global campaign inviting people to share their ideas centred around science fictional visions. The only on-ground event in India for this global competition happened in – you guessed it – Bengaluru. Not surprisingly, the most number of entries from India came from the city. The choice of Bengaluru as a venue is not surprising when you consider that some of the finest minds in India thinking about the future live and work here, when you factor in its vibrant geek culture and scientific institutions. But these are not the only reasons that make a case for Bengaluru to be India’s science fiction hub. I remember science fiction legend, journalist and futurist, Bruce Sterling speaking about there not being a lot of cities or cultures that produce a lot of science fiction, and saying that the cities that do so aren’t often the largest in their countries or centres of publishing but instead are intellectual areas and literary centres. In the context of India, Bengaluru is one of those cities that – as per him – ticks a lot of boxes conducive to producing science fiction: lot of high-tech, technical education institutions, big universities, plenty of bookstores, an easy place to set up clubs for science fiction, to find likeminded people & colleagues, to do amateur publishing, and to have events to establish a regional literary scene. It was perhaps fitting that I heard him say all this in Bengaluru itself, at last year’s Bangalore Literature Festival, perhaps the first major lit fest to have included SF programming in its schedule last year which, apart from Bruce Sterling, also included authors Samit Basu and Krishna Udayasankar. As the epicentre of India’s tech boom and an unmatched geek culture, with all the pieces that Bruce Sterling mentioned in place along with the fact that I’ve seen more self-pubbed SF and more reading communities here than anywhere else in India, all Bengaluru needs is a spark of inspiration and sustained output to be India’s SF capital. This is where even the smallest of local Facebook & WhatsApp groups, the SF/F events at bookstores such as Bookworm, Blossoms & Champaca come in. Because though they may be small, I believe they have a big role to play in fostering a love of speculative fiction and an appreciation for it thereof. They serve a key role in being a spark of inspiration, not least when a major literary event in the city such as the aforementioned Bangalore Literature Festival (BLF) decides to have an SF track – full disclosure in that this is curated by this writer – which brings noted SF writers to the city so readers and fans of spec-fic can listen to them, talk to them and mayhap find in it their own inspiration to write their own SFnal tale. This year, BLF will feature writers such as the multiple-award-winning Ian McDonald – author of River of Gods & Cyberabad Days amongst many others; Yudhanjaya Wijeratne – a rising star in SF globally and the author of Numbercaste & the alternate-history novel The Inhuman Race; Sukanya Venkatraghavan – author of Dark Things and editor of Magical Women, India’s first all-women feminist SF anthology; Indrapamit Das –author of the Lambda Literary Award-winning Devourers; the editor of the SF anthology Strange Worlds Strange Times, Vinayak Varma; as also the Sri Lankan hard SF writer Navin Weeraratne, and Sadhna Shanker, author of Ascendance. To add to all the things that make Bangalore great, one hopes that this will further spur and spark this city’s love for SF so that it can indisputably become India’s science fiction hotspot.