Guo Sheng has been working 15 hours a day for weeks. The general manager of China’s WRZ headphones is scrambling to prepare for Single’s Day, the most important day of the year for retailers like him. To get ready for China’s annual online shopping extravaganza, Guo, 29, has gone to great expense to boost production at his factory, while working with Alibaba’s online malls to present his products on live-streaming videos. His aim is to sell 300,000 of WRZ’s earphones that day for 9.9 yuan ($1.4) each.And for Alibaba, brands like WRZ are playing an increasingly important role in its strategy to offset slowing demand in the larger cities by selling cheaper products to shoppers in the country’s less developed rural areas, where consumption is forecast to triple from 2017 to $6.9 billion in 2030.
China’s largest e-commerce company wants to fend off the challenge of Pinduoduo, a rising competitor that’s achieved considerable success expanding into the country’s towns and villages that Alibaba is also targeting (See: China's Richest 2019: This E-Commerce Mogul Is $10 Billion Richer This Year). Pinduoduo has a savvy social media strategy that is more effective in penetrating these vastly untapped markets.
Still, Alibaba is widely expected to deliver another stellar performance during next week’s shopping bonanza that was invented a decade ago as a way to celebrate singlehood by giving out shopping discounts, and sales figures have since become a closely watched barometer indicating the company’s overall momentum. Sales are projected to jump by at least 20% and reach $37 billion this year– about the equivalent of a mid-sized Chinese city’s GDP.
“It will be a big battle,” says Shawn Yang, a Shenzhen-based managing director at research firm Blue Lotus Capital Advisors. “No matter it is through product quality or logistics service, Alibaba wants to lure users away.”
More On Forbes: Jack Ma In Conversation With Steve Forbes: Alibaba Founder Talks Tech, Business And Philanthropy
The company, for its part, has been working directly with factories, often providing them with free data tools to help make tailored products for differentiated offerings. Guo, for example, says he receives customer preference suggestions through Alibaba’s Chang Xiao Tong system, which pulls data from the company’s Taobao marketplace and Tmall shopping site.
The system shows Guo that his potential customers aren’t willing to spend more than 30 yuan on a pair of headphones, and subsequently advised him to adjust the design and lower his price. WRZ’s products, along with discounted clothes, food and cosmetics from hundreds of thousands of merchants, are mostly sold through Juhuasuan, a flash-sales and group-buying site the company launched in 2010. It has listings from more established brands, too. Unilever sells some of its discounted shampoo there.
“We provide the best offer from brands globally, and there is no reason that people don’t buy from us,” Liu Bo, head of Juhuasuan and general manager of Tmall and Taobao marketing, said in a September interview at Alibaba’s Hangzhou headquarters.
Alibaba’s strategy is paying off. Almost 70% of the 20 million new shoppers it attracted until June are from less developed areas. In the quarter ended September, the company reported a 40% increase in revenue from a year ago that reached $16.7 billion, while profit came in at $10.2 billion.
More On Forbes: China’s Richest Man Steps Down As Alibaba’s Chairman
But analysts say it can’t stay ahead of the competition, either. “When Alibaba focused a few years ago on offering higher-end products to cater to the so-called consumption upgrade trend, it left a gap that was quickly captured,” says David Dai, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bernstein Research. “Pinduoduo started by targeting users in less developed areas, and now it is near impossible to kill it off. ”
While Alibaba can’t rely on WeChat, which was developed by Pinduoduo’s shareholder Tencent, it has been promoting other affiliated apps like the Alipay e-wallet and Ele.me food-delivery service to grab consumer attention. “This is like an ecosystem strategy, and the company wants to direct users of its other apps to online shopping,” Dai says. “If Alibaba hasn’t acted fast enough, then the lower-tier markets would have been taken entirely by Pinduoduo, and the company’s progress would have been a lot more difficult.”