You all may know me as the author of the self-help book Homeless to Billionaire: The 18 Principles of Wealth Attraction and Creating Unlimited Opportunity . Besides that, I’m also well known for a company I founded called Blue Horizon , which has been in business for more than fifteen years.
Blue Horizon is a Phuket-based property development company that has revolutionized the concept of luxury living in the region. We pride ourselves on transforming vision into tangible structures that generate new investments and exponential returns to the communities we serve.
Blue Horizon’s group of portfolios includes the award-winning Skylight Villas, The Beachfront, Signature Villas, and the Himalai Oceanfront Condominium to name a few. Earlier this year, we launched Phuket’s biggest hotel Ramada Plaza Grand Himalai Oceanfront Residences on a stretch of Kamala beach.
Blue Horizon and its group of 19 companies have won around 30 internationally-recognized awards throughout its existence. With our continued hard work, dedication, and a never-give-up attitude, we hope to achieve much more in the years to come.
In June 2017, Blue Horizon was named ‘Top Thai Property Developer’ and ‘Best New Hotel Construction and Design’ by the Asia Pacific Property Awards. In July 2017, we collected three more awards from the Thailand Property and Dot Property Group. We were nominated again in 2018 and collected nine awards. This May, Blue Horizon was awarded ‘Best Developer Phuket,’ ‘Best Mixed-Use Development Phuket,’ and ‘Best Investment Project Phuket’ by Asia Pacific Property Awards.
It took time to reach this point, and also a solid team of the best employees to make it all happen. I can’t say that I created Blue Horizon; we did. It took a whole team of people to make this dream a reality. What started as my goal to become the best developer in
Thailand turned into a dream that I now share with countless others. I’ve grown a company, a family of people that all work together, celebrate together, and thrive to lift each other to continued success. All it took was learning how to become the best in this industry. By studying other leaders and my competitors, we’ve become the best there is.