Thursday October 31, 2019—Halloween—was an extraordinary day. It was only the fourth time in the 232-year history of America that the House of Representatives passed a resolution to inquire into impeaching the president. Even more extraordinary was that not a single Republican voted for the resolution, despite the obvious grounds for an inquiry and their own repeated calls for a resolution to establish due process. The current conventional wisdom is that the House will in due course vote to impeach President Trump but that few if any Republican senators will vote for removal from office when it comes to a trial in the Senate, thus ensuring Trump’s continuation in office, no matter what evidence emerges in impeachment hearings.
Nevertheless, history suggests that televised impeachment hearings by Congress, with the support of the Supreme Court, could upset this thinking.
The Case Of Richard Nixon
Although in retrospect, it seems inevitable that Richard Nixon would be impeached for his egregious abuse of power in the Watergate scandal, it was far from obvious at the time. Despite extensive press coverage of the Watergate break-in in June 1972, President Nixon won reelection in a landslide victory in November 1972, taking 49 of 50 states, with an approval rating over 70%.
In June 1973, at the start of Congressional televised hearings, after a year of incessant negative press coverage of Watergate and the subsequent cover-up,, Gallup surveys showed that his approval rating had fallen somewhat, but still only 19% of respondents believed the president should be removed from office by impeachment.
By contrast, public support for the impeachment and removal of President Trump is now much stronger than that. With the first televised congressional hearings set to begin next week, public approval for impeachment and removal from office is now around 47%—up from around 40% just six weeks ago and compared to 19% for Nixon at a similar stage
Nevertheless, in 2019, Trump’s base of support is arguably more passionate and stable than Nixon’s. That’s because of Trump apparent status as a folk hero who can brazenly claim, “I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody and wouldn’t lose any voters, O.K.?” Accordingly, Republican senators are expected to act of fear or retaliation from the president and his base of supporters, regardless of the merits of the case.
1972: Knowledge of Wrongdoing Didn’t Shift Public Opinion
The low public support (19%) for impeachment of Richard Nixon after a year of Watergate break-in news wasn’t the result of lack of knowledge. Intense coverage, both on television and in newspapers like The Washington Post, ensured public knowledge of the scandal and Nixon’s involvement in it. Watergate had received attention comparable to major world events like the Vietnam War and the Paris peace talks.
By April 1973, almost 50% voters believed that Nixon had prior knowledge of the Watergate break-in and that he was not being truthful to the public. But voters didn’t seem to care.
“News coverage, then, had created awareness of Watergate,” wrote sociologists Gladys and Kurt Lang in The Battle for Public Opinion, (Columbia University Press, 1983) “but this did not translate directly into a politically relevant response. Watergate never became linked in most people’s minds with Nixon’s fitness to be President. It did not appear to intrude directly into people’s lives…. the crime was perceived as that of politicians against other politicians and thereby too remote from everyday concerns to agitate the ordinary voter.”
Similarly, in 2019, there is widespread public knowledge of Trump’s wrongdoing as a commander in chief who has compromised national security in Ukraine in order to benefit his own election campaign and harm his political rival. But as in 1973, knowledge of wrongdoing by politicians against other politicians is not—yet—enough to get a majority of the electorate energized or thinking seriously of Trump’s removal from office.
1973-4: How Congressional Hearings Changed Everything
With Nixon, the Langs concluded that Congress, not the media, was the principal factor in shifting public opinion and causing Nixon’s downfall. The Senate hearings had little effect on public knowledge of Nixon’s guilt: the public already knew about that. But Congressional hearings succeeded in getting the public to see the meaning of what was done and thus to grasp the need for impeachment and removal.
·       The hearings revealed Nixon’s wrongdoing step-by-step in an understandable narrative in prime-time television, particularly the impressively detailed testimony of former White House aide, John Dean.
·       After the hearings revealed that Nixon had taped all conversations in his offices, Nixon illustrated the coverup by fighting with Congress over releasing the tapes.
·       This led to the “Saturday Night Massacre” that led to the resignation of the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney in October 1973, where again Nixon made himself look guilty.
·       Nixon eventually released edited transcripts of the tapes in April of 1974, but there were significant omissions.
·       The House Judiciary Committee recommended impeachment in July 1974.
·       The Supreme Court ordered the release of the actual tapes in July 1974—including the “smoking gun” tape which Nixon had been concealing—so that the public could hear Nixon saying the things he had denied having said.
·       By 1974, 60% of voters supported impeachment and removal; Republican senators warned Nixon that his time was up.
In 2019 in the case of Trump, there are several “smoking guns” already in plain public view—the partial transcript of Trump’s July 25 conversation with the president of Ukraine, Trump’s shameless confession on the White House lawn October 3, and Mick Mulvaney’s admission in a White House press briefing on October 17 that “we do it all the time: get over it!”
What the hearings may accomplish is revealing on prime-time television a detailed blow-by-blow account of how the conversation on July 25 was not an isolated conversation by a disorganized and intellectually-inept president, but rather the tip of a systematic campaign of related wrongdoing, organized and conducted by multiple actors over a number of months.
There is no serious question about the facts. As Republican columnist Peggy Noonan writes in the Wall Street Journal: “I think most everyone paying attention knows the answer.” But seeing this testimony play out day by day on national television will have a larger public impact than lengthy written testimony.
Yet to succeed, the hearings must also show that this is not just “Trump being Trump” or “politicians fighting other politicians” or “something happening an obscure foreign country” but rather a serious and continuing threat to the integrity of American democracy, its elections and its electorate.
Trump 2019: No Serious Question Of Impeachability
The Constitution defines the mysterious grounds for impeachment as “Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.” Contrary to Republican talking points, a quid pro quo is not a necessary element.
Of the three cases, two—Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton—were unsuccessful in removing a president, suggesting that bad behavior or illegality are not by themselves impeachable. In the third, Richard Nixon resigned on hearing from Senate Republicans that they would vote to remove him from office for abuse of power and obstruction of justice.
In the case of Trump, the principal offense in question–an abuse of power by conspiring with a foreign power to intervene in an election—is the very situation that the Founding Fathers were considering in drafting the impeachment power. It will therefore be hard to argue that the offense is not impeachable, regardless of whether there is any quid pro quo. (There was.)
A Regression To A Pre-Enlightenment Era
Yet it is expected that most if not all Republican senators will deny the obvious evidence and vote against removal from office.
According to presidential historian, Jon Meacham, this suggests that we have entered a kind of pre-Enlightenment era. It’s as if we are putting aside the primacy of reason, in which people can observe data, and form their own views, instead of having views handed from on-high.
The American experiment for all its flaws is the clearest political manifestation of this theory. When modern American conservatives say that they want to be true to the Founding and its traditions, the central tradition of the American founding is that you think for yourself. You don’t simply do what someone else tells you, simply because it comes from a certain television network or because it comes from someone who won a certain election. Indeed, on taking office, senators take an oath of office to do exactly that.
According to Meacham, the fact that no Republican in Congress voted that Trump’s actions are even worth looking into suggests that superstition and blind obedience have replaced reason for those people at this time.
The Reemergence of Tribalism
An associated argument is that we are seeing a return to tribalism. In Republican politics today, it’s my side or the highway.
The current impeachment process, according to Republican columnist Hugh Hewitt, is “already irretrievably compromised by alleged ex parte contacts with the ‘whistleblower,’ secret hearings, and circumscribed rights for the minority and the president. The assault on due process… is too far advanced to correct.” For Hewitt, the constitutional question as to whether the president has committed an impeachable offense does not even arise: the only question is how his side can prevail. His advice: a quick summary judgement by Senate on the basis that there is nothing to discuss.
Trump As Folk Hero
One reason for Trump’s remarkable ability to survive charges of chronic wrongdoing and compulsive lying is that he has achieved something that few politicians achieve: As Charles Blow points out in The New York Times, Trump has transcended the political world, and entered the unreal realm of folk heroes.
“The rules don’t apply to the folk hero,” says Blow. “People don’t measure them by the same tape. Behavior that people would never condone in their personal lives, they relish in the folk hero.” Lies and wrongdoing are features, not bugs.
“Trump’s lying, corruption, sexism and grift,” writes Blow, “not only do no damage, they add to his legend. The folk hero, whether real or imaginary, often fights the establishment, often in devious, destructive and even deadly ways, and those outside that establishment cheer as the folk hero brings [the establishment] to its knees… Trump’s Br’er Rabbit-like ability to avert the best attempt by authorities to hold him accountable, at least for a while, only increases the chorus of applause.”
The only vulnerability of a folk hero is when the folk realize he has betrayed them.
Has Trump Betrayed His Base?
To defeat Trump in the court of public opinion, Congress may have to show not only that he has committed impeachable offenses. They may need to show that Trump’s abuse of power is part of a pattern of conduct that has affects not only the institution of democracy but voters’ everyday lives.
Although the impact on voters’ lives is not a ground for impeachment, it provides the context for voters evaluating charges of impeachment. Just about everything Trump has said about how he’d be great for his base has not materialized.
·       Trump promised to :drain the swamp” of Washington but instead populated it with an precedented degree of corrupt actors.
·       Trump has been great boon for the wealthy and the corporations, but he hasn’t delivered economic benefits for his faithful base. His most significant accomplishment—his giant tax cut—failed to produce the economic growth and investment he promised. Instead, it has further aggravated income inequality and builds a mountain of future debt to pay off.
·       Trump failed in his promises that he would build a wall on the Southern border and that Mexico would pay it.
·       Trump did not deliver on his promise to provide a better health care system and has only taken steps to undermine the existing system.
·       Unemployment is at historic lows but most of the new jobs are not good jobs. The plight of stagnant median incomes for the middle class is still as acute as ever.
·       Trump promised to quickly win a trade war but is now mired in endless negotiations with China, with no clear strategy for moving forward.
To succeed, the impeachment process may need to show not just that Trump has committed an impeachable offense. It may need to show that his actions are part of a pattern that has betrayed his base and will go on doing so unless his term of office is ended.
And read also: