Nick Caserio provided an introduction to Chase Winovich on the night of April 26.The New England Patriots director of player personnel’s words have turned into plays since then.
“He’s been productive rushing the passer. He’s got a good motor. He’s a pretty instinctive guy,” Caserio said of Winovich following the Michigan product’s arrival at pick No. 77 overall. “He’s good with his hands. He’s got pretty good technique and he’s been productive over the course of a couple of years here now. And he’s got long hair which I'm sure everybody will enjoy – until we tell him to cut it.”
The blonde locks have remained. What was seen from the redshirt senior in Ann Arbor also has.
Winovich and Stanford punter Jake Bailey were among 10 draft cards filled out by the Patriots. They are the lone picks who have appeared in every game. And at the regular season’s bye week, Winovich, while preceded by Arizona State wide receiver N’Keal Harry and Vanderbilt cornerback Joejuan Williams on the board, is New England’s rookie of the fall.
Those superlatives now turn to the winter.
Winovich has seen 28% of the defensive snaps through the 8-1 start, a rate which ranks near the back end of the pack among his Patriots teammates. But a situational role off the edge has been carved by the third-team All-American and first-team All-Big Ten selection. It’s been met by production.
His 4.5 sacks, more than half-a-dozen quarterback hurries and 11 tackles reflect it.
Defensive tackle Adam Butler and outside linebacker Kyle Van Noy are tied with Winovich for second on the Patriots in sacks. Only the renaissance of Jamie Collins resides ahead on a unit that stands atop the league in points allowed per game.
And, per Pro Football Reference, only Chandler Jones, Chris Jones and Deatrich Wise Jr. managed to eclipse 4.5 sacks as rookies in Foxborough dating back to 2000.
The skillset has brought usage there and elsewhere for the 6-foot-3, 250-pound Winovich. He’s proven the war room accurate in projection, if not right in practice.
“He has some value, hopefully not only defensively but in the kicking game, as well, with his size,” Caserio’s scouting report continued. “… He runs fairly well. I think he ran a 4.6 [40-yard dash time] or somewhere in that vicinity, so it’s a pretty good combination of size and speed, toughness and instinctiveness.”
Winovich has checked in for more than half of New England’s work on special teams. Just a handful have checked in more frequently.
A recovered punt block became a touchdown against the New York Giants. A chuck into the stands followed, along with a fine in the ballpark of $7,000. It marked Winovich’s first trip to the end zone since his quarterbacking days at Pennsylvania’s Thomas Jefferson High School.
“For me, it was more so the experience of scoring the touchdown, like that’s priceless,” Winovich told reporters postgame. “A football’s a football. Yeah, it’s cool to look back on it, but I’ve got the film to look back on it. The moment with my teammates in the end zone, that’s priceless. No football can equate.”
Winovich’s four-year $3.8 million rookie pact equates to a signing bonus just shy of $1 million and a current cap number just shy of $745,000, according to OverTheCap.com. The 24-year-old has exceeded what he’s received through nine games.
“Chase works hard,” Patriots head coach Bill Belichick said during an October press conference. “Really studies the game. We’ve asked him to do some things differently than what he’s done in college, but he’s embraced that. He’s tried really hard to do whatever we’ve asked him to do. Gives a tremendous effort, on and off the field, to do things right and to help the team in any way he can.”
With or without the football.