The NCAA is taking heat again. That’s because Chase Young, Ohio State’s star pass-rusher, will miss Saturday’s game against Maryland due to “a possible NCAA issue from 2018,” according to a statement from OSU’s Department of Athletics. Young confirmed his impending absence with a statement of his own on Twitter. In it, he said that that he accepted a loan from a family friend the summer before his freshman year of college.
Young, a junior, added that he repaid the loan entirely last summer and that he’s working with Ohio State and the NCAA “to get back on the field as soon as possible.” It remains to be seen how this eligibility issue will impact the remainder of Young’s season and the Buckeyes’ playoff hopes.
The school is investigating the matter.
Young was sure to note that he “made a mistake” in his statement, but the fact of the matter is that he’s being punished for something that thousands of college kids do across the country every year. Nothing stops the average student from borrowing money during or before college, but Young plays football, and the NCAA is hellbent on controlling whatever it can when it comes to athletes’ lives, even as the case for NIL rights continues to make progress.
Here’s what the NCAA’s bylaws have to say about taking a loan from an “established family friend”:
There is a chance that Young will miss more than just this weekend’s game against his hometown Terrapins. The Buckeyes have four regular season games left. A multi-game suspension is possible, but there are several factors at play. Those include how the specifics of this incident fit into the rules above, when Ohio State learned of the violation and the school’s and Young’s cooperation.
The reality, however, is that any further punishment would be more of a loss for Ohio State, college football and the NCAA than it would be for Young.
A potential No. 1 NFL draft pick in 2020, Young leads the FBS with 13.5 sacks. His 15.5 tackles for loss are tied for second. Young’s draft status likely won’t take a hit because of the NCAA’s restrictive regulations, regardless of how many games he misses.
Ohio State, on the other hand, could lose a dominant player down the stretch as postseason selections draw near. The NCAA, meanwhile, will keep one of its brightest talents off the field – for at least one game – drawing ire at a time of year when the focus should be on the most important games of the season.
That, however, has always been the NCAA’s preferred hill to die on. Perhaps that will change in the case of Chase Young, but don’t count on it.