Thinking of buying some house plants to create a cleaner environment at home or the office? It turns out that previous claims on their ability to improve air quality are “vastly overstated,” according to research conducted by Drexel University. “This has been a common misconception for some time,” says Michael Waring, PhD, an associate professor of architectural and environmental engineering in Drexel’s College of Engineering, Drexel University in Philadelphia. “Plants are great, but they don’t actually clean indoor air quickly enough to have an effect on the air quality of your home or office environment.”
The popularity of purchasing plants and flowers has increased over the past five years, with the value of the production market surpassing £1.3 billion in the U.K. However, what the public thinks they know about plants and flowers could be wrong, as a closer look at decades of research shows that natural ventilation in a room far outpaces plants when it comes to cleaning the air.
Waring and his doctoral student, Bryan Cummings, conducted a review of 12 studies which spanned 30 years of research and published their findings in Nature's Journal of Exposure Science and Environmental Epidemiology. The findings go against a high-profile experiment done by NASA in 1989, which looked to find ways to clean the air on space stations. Following its study, it declared that plants could be used to remove cancer-causing chemicals from the air.
“Typical for these studies,” the researchers write, “a potted plant was placed in a sealed chamber (often with a volume of a cubic meter or smaller), into which a single volatile organic compound (VOC) was injected, and its decay was tracked over the course of many hours or days.”
VOCs are organic chemicals that have a high vapor pressure at normal room temperature, or, as defined by the European Union, any organic compound having an initial boiling point less tan or equal to 250 Celsius. However, while VOCs are not acutely toxic, they have long-term effects on people’s health, including headaches, nausea, and damage to the liver and kidneys. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) found that concentrations of VOCs in indoor air could range between two to five times greater than outdoor air, sometimes reaching as high as 1,000 times.
Deciding to take their own review one step further, the researchers took the data from volumes of potted plant research and calculated a measure called the "clean air delivery rate (CADR)." From these calculations, they found that plants dissipated VOCs at a rate slower than the standard rate of air exchange in a building, making the plants redundant. Waring believes that previous researchers had not been conducting the studies from an environmental engineering perspective, and "did not understand" how air exchange rates differed in buildings.
The calculations showed that it would take between 100 and 1,000 plants per square meter of floor space to compete with the natural air cleaning capacity of a building’s air handling system or even just a couple open windows in a house.
“This is certainly an example of how scientific findings can be misleading or misinterpreted over time,” Waring says. “But it’s also a great example of how scientific research should continually reexamine and question findings to get closer to the ground truth of understanding what’s actually happening around us.”