The European Union’s top tech regulator says she sees no need to break up Big Tech—at least not yet.Margrethe Vestager, the EU’s Commissioner for Competition at the European Commission, has gained a reputation in recent years for being tough on the largest U.S. tech giants. She’s led investigations against Apple for evading taxes and undercutting competition while also going after Google for its dominance in the search market and Android-operated devices. However, speaking on Thursday evening during the closing night of the Web Summit tech conference in Lisbon, Portugal, Vestager—a Danish politician who was reappointed in September as the EU’s top antitrust regulator with an expanded role—chose to point out the promise of digital innovation while also calling on tech companies to keep themselves more accountable.
Asked what would it take for her to consider bringing additional antitrust enforcement, Vestager said a company would have to do something where “breaking up company is the only solution for fixing the illegal behavior.” However, she that’s not yet the case, adding that there can be unintended consequences to over-regulation, using the mythical story of the hydra as a metaphor.
“If you know the story of the antique kind of creature when you chop off one head,” she said. “I think one or two or seven came up. So there’s a risk that you don’t solve the problem; you just have many more problems.”
Vestager also weighed in on Facebook allowing misleading political ads on its platform. She said the company should follow the same standards of print and broadcast news outlets by only allowing ads that are truthful. The argument is similar to one recently made by U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, D-Virginia, who recently wrote a letter to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg asking him to reconsider the decision to allow false ads.
"The risk is that we completely undermine our democracy,” she said. “Democracy is supposed to take place in the open where a political ad can be fact checked, contradicted, different political opinions should be offered, supported. And if it’s only in your feed, if it’s only between you and Facebook and then micro-targeting who you are, that’s not democracy anymore. That’s just privatized de facto manipulation of who are you going to vote for.”
Asked on stage if she had a message for Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Vestager said Facebook has a chance to be more than a neutral bystander. She said the social network’s founder is “an amazing creator of an amazing company, and if he himself can get behind his words, we would see change rapidly.”
While the EU’s sweeping data privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulations, governs how internet companies can collect and use personal data of customers, Vestager said there is more work to be done. But that doesn’t have to just come from the government, she said while addding that entrepreneurs should create new ways to enable consumers to leave less of a digital trail while surfing the web.
"I myself am very happy that I have digital rights,” she said. "My problem is I find it very difficult to enforce that. The only result of me reading terms and conditions is me getting distorted from wanting me to read the article that wanted me to tap terms and conditions.”
While EU officials have been skeptical for a while about the activities of U.S. tech companies, she said she’s been encouraged by U.S. lawmakers’ recently renewed level of engagement when it comes to questioning companies on how they collect and use data.
The discussion wasn’t entirely focused on what dangers of digital innovation. Vestager said that AI has the potential to help humans solve global issues such as climate change or to help the health care both increase efficiencies for like hospital wait times while also making treatment and care more effective.
"I see no limits as to how artificial intelligence can support what we want to do as humans,” she said.
Asked if she’s still optimistic that tech companies will be able to improve their own operations around data collection, fake news and other issues, she said she has a “moral obligation” to remain an optimist.
"Pessimists," Vestager said. "They really never get anything done because it’s worse tomorrow so why bother?"