The 500 million people across the European Union have been facing waves of political and economic upheaval. But the EU’s powerful industries and well-educated populations continue to offer significant opportunities. Here’s a look at why firms can find growth—thanks to the economy, regulation and tech sectors—by expanding in Germany and France.
No European country is completely immune to the ripple effects of events like Brexit or the global economic slowdown. But some countries in Europe have had a calmer political environment, making them more conducive to economic reforms.
Solidly pro-EU, France is back to implementing its ambitious pro-business reforms as the country seeks to reorganize the public sector, reform unemployment insurance and welfare benefits and tackle the pension system. The changes followed months of protests about inequality and lack of social mobility by the so-called yellow vest movement.
“France is on the right trajectory for transforming its economic environment for the better,” says Sebastien Guillo, head of international commercial banking of HSBC France. “Despite worldwide growth slowing down, France has shown stability in terms of its economy, and we are more solidly anchored within the European Union than most other European countries.”
Looking ahead, France is projected to continue steady growth at 1.3% in 2019, a slightly higher rate than the eurozone GDP growth forecast of 1.2%. Domestic demand is expected to be the main growth driver, with private consumption boosted by President Emmanuel Macron’s recent tax cuts.
At the same time, the exports-driven German economy made a modest start in 2019, due to the lowering of worldwide demand. “However, domestic demand is still very strong, and investments in construction and equipment are still robust,” points out Axel Dicken, country head of international subsidiary banking, corporate and institutional banking at HSBC Germany.
He adds that due to its strong fiscal position, Germany, which is Europe’s largest economy, could easily take steps to boost domestic consumption and offset the weakening of the external demand. These steps are still in the discussion and negotiation phase.
“Among the most attractive investments and M&A targets are small and medium-sized enterprises—referred to as the ‘German Mittelstand’—which offer access to the local market as well as global supply chains,” says Dicken.
[AD]
European authorities are at the forefront of tackling still-unanswered issues of the digital economy—such as data management and ownership, the impact of AI and the role of the technology giants. Moreover, many European countries have a business-friendly regulatory environment for foreign investors. Germany, for one, is open for investment, with a legal landscape that typically does not differentiate between German nationals and international investors. With that shift from protectionism to competitiveness in some areas, even aggressive U.S. private equity firms are now perceived in Germany as a force to help companies improve performance and create jobs.
“Other incentives to invest in Germany include public program loans and subsidies offered by the German government to green investments that reduce CO2 emissions,” says Dicken. “The low interest rate environment in Europe is also a motivator.”
France is working on creating a more flexible employment environment. The reforms tied to unemployment and welfare are designed to increase job mobility and delay retirement, in theory making it easier for foreign investors to manage their workforces. “The upcoming reforms in the labor markets are very important from an investment standpoint,” says HSBC’s Guillo. “We are already seeing companies who are extremely happy with their investments in France, based on the high productivity of our labor force. The old image of France as slow-moving is very different from the reality on the ground.”
Guillo also notes that foreign investors doing business in France can sometimes find it off-putting when they try to replicate the same legal frameworks they know domestically in a more administrative-driven French legal system. But that’s a matter of making a cultural adjustment, Guillo says, rather than a dealbreaker.
Though on the rise, the venture capital industry in Europe, at $23 billion in 2018, is a pale shadow of venture capital in the U.S. ($131 billion) and Asia ($92 billion). That gap creates an opportunity for investment in the European technology sector. Guillo points to France’s dynamic startup scene as a potential area for investment and partnerships. To attract technology talent and investment, the country is offering the so-called French Tech Visa, a simplified, fast-track procedure for international startup founders, employees and investors that allows them to live and work in France. The country’s research tax credit covers 30% of all research and development expenses up to €100 million, and 5% above this threshold.
The country’s engineering culture is a huge plus when starting or expanding operations in France. Its system of engineering schools—funded by the ministries of industry, transportation, telecommunications and others—is demanding and highly selective. France’s flagship technical university, École Polytechnique, for instance, has been compared to Stanford University. Within Europe, France’s tech worker population is growing the fastest, at 7.3% in 2018.
Germany, meanwhile, offers investors access to a strong technology-driven ecosystem. Home to prominent automakers and technology companies, Germany is one of the strongest European performer on the World Economic Forum’s Competitiveness rankings. It stands out for its innovation hubs, ranking as the top country in the world in Innovation Capability, driven by a strong performance in patents, research publications and research institutions. Innovators also benefit from a vibrant business sector that brings those innovations to market. Germany also tops the World Bank’s 2018 Logistics Performance Index, with the sector expected to account for a fifth of national economic growth through 2025.
HSBC’s Dicken adds that Germany’s main industries (e.g., machinery and automotive) are undergoing a digital transformation of their business models. This transformation is supported by the government via the High-tech strategy 2015, under which high-tech industries, startups and innovations can enjoy tax reductions, among other benefits.
[AD]
Despite some headwinds slowing down the European economy, businesses can still find opportunities with long-term safety and growth potential. Germany and France, in particular, stand out. In both countries, investors will be able to rely on ingrained business and manufacturing traditions, sophisticated research facilities, regulatory transparency and well-educated workforces.