Warren Bobrow: You’ve been working in the regulated cannabis industry since 2014, which is much longer than many others. What prompted you to take the leap? What important lessons have you learned along the way? Why is cannabis so important to you?Carrie Solomon: Jody and I have always been the type of people to leap into new opportunities and embrace change. When we left New York City in 2010, it was without jobs or a certain plan, but mainly to try something completely new and different from the challenging life we’d been living on the East Coast. By the time 2014 came to be, I had worked in a number of design jobs — from a corporate job at Bloomberg Financial in New York, to numerous agency and freelance gigs in Portland. In those years, I produced great work, but was never completely fulfilled, and in fact was pretty unhappy with my creative life. As the emerging cannabis market presented itself to us with the design opportunity of the century — a wide open market that, at the time, was under-serving the demographic to which we most related — I knew it was ours for the taking and an incredible entrepreneurial moment to grab.
The greatest lessons I’ve personally learned over these years center around trusting my gut instincts, being fearless in our decision making, and layering on a thicker skin in the face of almost daily challenges in this tumultuous industry. Underlying all of these lessons is being able to recognize opportunity and synchronicities that lead you down a path. For example, when our desire to expand our cannabis business rapidly, as well as launch the hemp CBD arm of our company, aligned with the launch of The Initiative, there was no hesitation in applying to be a part of the first cohort. We embraced, essentially, going back to school, learning as much as we could, and inviting new partners into our heretofore sequestered mom-and-pop world. This huge leap resulted in a completely new chapter in our business, and has helped us create a new future for ourselves and the direction of our cannabis creations.
Jody Ake: Cannabis is important to us for a number of reasons. We, like many others, began this business with a need that couldn’t be filled without us creating it for ourselves. As a medical marijuana card holder in 2013 and prior, I used topicals almost every day to manage chronic pain caused by a car accident in my twenties. When some rules and regulations changed that year, I no longer had access to my preferred products, and was left with options that were either too greasy, not potent enough, or smelled like a medicine cabinet. I felt a real loss for an alternative wellness option that had a really positive effect on my quality of life. The freedom to pursue something non-opioid based was crucial to my health, so we created something exactly perfect for our needs, which now happens to be one of our most popular products on the market for people with serious pain. I also now personally use cannabis, mostly in the form of high doses of CBD, to help with sleep. On that level, I can’t imagine life without cannabis to support me.
Carrie Solomon: I second that. As a business opportunity, cannabis has always represented to me the most exciting way to succeed financially while at the same time bringing positive change to the world. What an amazing platform to help support the exoneration of so many people affected by the war on drugs, bring new methods of wellness to the forefront, provide a recreational outlet that is healthier and less destructive than alcohol, and inspire people of all ages and walks of life to make every day a little bit better. Plus, this emerging market is an amazing place for a female founder to forge a completely new path as a leader.
WB: Your brands have a really fun vibe and you source quality ingredients for your edible and topical creations. How would you describe your business(es) in the space? What inspires your unique edible selections? How do you “rescue the world from the mundane and free everyone from the conventional expectations of CBD” with your products?
CS: We focus on a market we like to call mass craft. This is the notion that we can create some amazing products with high quality ingredients and a craft ethos around flavor, quality and design, that are also accessible to more than just one type of consumer and can be produced on a larger scale. We are not a luxury brand, but we definitely convey in a very deliberate look and feel what a consumer can expect to experience once they engage in our products. Design is really important to us, meaning that we are highly aware of the entire consumer experience, from the first look and feel of the packaging, to the flavor and sensations of the product, to the experience of full extract and full spectrum oils. We are also whimsical in our approach — cannabis and hemp-CBD can often be very serious in their branding and messaging, but we incorporate joy and some humor in a lot of what we do.
JA: As creatives, it’s almost impossible not to try and create things that are unique. R&D is my favorite part of the process. The highlight of product creation is coming up with something no one has considered before. Not everything we do is a revelation, but flavors like Mint Hibiscus and our Marshmallow Bon Bons, are these little inventions that excite us and thus excite our consumers. If we feel some emotions around what we’re making, it seems inevitable that we’ll have success in sharing that sort of inspiration with everyone we can reach with our product.
CS: With all of the myriad options out in the world, we really, truly want to provide a line of products that delight and inspire a consumer. Why not be able to feed your eyes with packaging and inspire your senses all around? Why does cannabis need to be so serious when you can enjoy the same, if not better results, in products that also bring happiness on every level? The world deserves a little levity…
WB: Do you cook? If so, who taught you? Mother? Father? Television cooking shows? Anything that brings a tear to your eye when you eat/drink it? Why?
CS: I don’t cook, but I can make a great hard boiled egg and a juicy roast chicken, thanks to Martha Stewart. I’m pretty affected by food. A really great cheesecake is everything, but at the end of the day my heart is touched by a Maryland style crab cake. Living on the West Coast means I wait every year for my parents to send me crab cakes from home for my birthday. Nothing is quite like a half a pound of crustacean that reminds you of your childhood.
JA: I cook a lot. I learned a bit from watching my grandmother and my mom, but the real reason I learned to cook was out of pure necessity. I was living on my own in my senior year of high school, and just got tired of eating the same bean burritos and ramen every day and I needed to figure out how to make something better. I’d often call my mom and ask her how to make something, and she’d tell me how, over the phone. It was actually the first time we started to become friends and not just ‘parent and kid.’ It’s a really nice memory.
If I hadn't had Hatch green chile in a while and eat it again, it’s a pretty emotional experience. Green chile is just so unique and amazing as a flavor and the effect it has on your brain —  it reminds me of being in New Mexico, one of my favorite places on earth.
WB: Where do you see yourself and your company in a year? Ten years? When you were a kid, what did you want to be?
CS: We are excited to expand rapidly, and see the company having national and international reach with some household name status, at least in the realm of the conscientious consumer. With our recently opened retail space adjacent to our manufacturing facility in Southeast Portland, we can envision another location being established in the next year or so, that features our products in other states, not just as magnets for our brand, but as educational spaces to help elucidate hemp-CBD science and usage, particularly around the benefits of full spectrum. Long term, we see being able to continue the journey in the food space and perhaps having partnered with a bigger entity to catapult our brands in an even larger sphere.
JA: We’re also expanding our THC business for a multi-state presence. This is exciting because the two sides of the company, Leif Goods and Greater Goods, speak to each other in obvious ways. It’s important to grow both sides to be able to offer the entire spectrum of products to a market hungry for all sorts of cannabinoids.
CS: As a kid, I first wanted to be a professional pianist, then a veterinarian. For a moment, perhaps it was tattooist—lots of drawing on myself with felt tip pens at the age of five. Later it was an artist or writer. Design has somewhat afforded me all of those things as my vocation, although taking care of three rambunctious cats is as far as the vet dream progressed.
JA: I didn’t really have those sort of thoughts; of being this or that. It wasn’t until my freshman year of college that I knew I was going to be an artist, which I’ve been for the last 30 years.
WB: If you could be anywhere in the world, right now, where would that be? Doing what?
CS: I’m satisfied doing what I’m doing right now. That aside, I would be in Palm Springs, exploring the Salton Sea again (a trip planned for early next year) or driving the ring road in Iceland. I’m becoming more comfortable in nature, disconnected from the everyday, so my goal is to take in more moments of quiet and appreciate the expanse of beauty.
JA: Somewhere in the Southwestern desert, on a little peak right on the edge of Tent Rocks. I would sit there, looking at the clouds.