ABBYY FineReader is an optical character recognition (OCR) application developed by ABBYY.
The program allows the conversion of image documents (photos, scans, PDF files) into editable electronic formats.. In particular, Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, Rich Text Format, HTML, PDF/A, searchable PDF, CSV and txt (plain text) files.
Starting with version 11 files can be saved in the DjVu format.. Version 15 supports recognition of text in 192 languages and has a built-in spell check for 48 of them.
There are more than 20 million users of ABBYY FineReader worldwide.
Based on FineReader optical character recognition, ABBYY licenses the technology to several companies such as Fujitsu, Panasonic, Xerox, Samsung and others.
Version 12 of the software has received an "Excellent" rating by PC Magazine.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Official Linux websiteYandex N.V.. (; Russian: Яндекс, IPA: [ˈjandəks]) is a Russian multinational corporation specializing in Internet-related products and services, including transportation, search and information services, eCommerce, navigation, mobile applications, and online advertising.
Yandex provides over 70 services in total.
Incorporated in the Netherlands, Yandex primarily serves audiences in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States.. The company founders and most of the team members are located in Russia.
The company has 18 commercial offices worldwide.
It is the largest technology company in Russia and the largest search engine on the Internet in Russian, with a market share of over 52%.. The Yandex.ru home page is the 4th most popular website in Russia.
It also has the largest market share of any search engine in Europe and  the Commonwealth of Independent States and is the 5th largest search engine worldwide after Google, Baidu, Bing, and Yahoo!.
Yandex's main competitors on the Russian market are Google, Mail.ru, and Rambler.
According to the company, one of its biggest advantages for Russian-language users is the ability to recognize Russian inflection in search queries.Yandex has invested in companies including Vizi Labs, Face.com, Blekko, Seismotech, Multiship, SalesPredict, and Doc+.


== Offices ==
Yandex has offices in 17 countries.. Yandex Labs was opened in Silicon Valley in 2008, and also in Istanbul in 2011.The company opened a sales office in Lucerne in 2012 to serve its European advertising clients, while opening a research and development office in Berlin in 2014.Yandex opened its first office in Shanghai during 2015 to work with Chinese companies that work in the Russian language market.


== History ==


=== 1990s ===
Yandex traces its roots to 1990, when Arkady Volozh and Arkady Borkovsky founded Arkadia, a company that developed MS-DOS software for use in patents and goods classification.
Their software featured a full-text search with Russian morphology support.. In 1993, Arkadia became a subdivision of Comptek International, another company founded by Volozh in 1989.In 1993, Arkady Volozh and Ilya Segalovich, friends since their school days and by then working together to develop search software, invented the word "Yandex" to describe their search technologies.
The name initially stood for "Yet Another iNDEXer".. The Russian word "Я" ("Ya") corresponds to the English personal pronoun "I", making "Яndex" a bilingual pun on "index".
Another pun is based on the yin and yang contrast (Russian: инь – индекс, ян – яндекс).
Between 1993 and 1996, the company continued developing its search technologies and released software for searching through the Bible.The Yandex.ru search engine was launched on September 23, 1997, and was publicly presented at the Softool exhibition in Moscow.. Initially, the search engine was developed by Comptek.
In 2000, Yandex was incorporated as a standalone company by Arkady Volozh.In 1998, Yandex launched contextual advertisement on its search engine.


=== 2000s ===
In 2001, it launched the Yandex.Direct online advertising network.The company became profitable in November 2002.. In 2004, Yandex sales increased to $17 million, up 1000% in 2 years.
The net income of the company in 2004 was $7 million.. In June 2006, the weekly revenue of Yandex.Direct context ads system exceeded $1 million.
The company's accounting has been audited by Deloitte since 1999.
In September 2005, Yandex opened an office in Ukraine and launched www.yandex.ua.. In 2007, Yandex introduced a customized search engine for Ukrainian users; Yandex also opened its development center in Kiev in May 2007.
In 2008, Yandex extended its presence in Ukraine by increasing bandwidth between Moscow data centers and UA-IX in Ukraine fivefold.. In 2009, all services of www.yandex.ua were localized for the Ukrainian market.
In 2010, Yandex launched its "Poltava" search engine algorithm for Ukrainian users, based on its MatrixNet technology.In March 2007, Yandex acquired moikrug.ru, a Russian social networking service.On June 16, 2008, Yandex acquired SMILink, a Russian road traffic monitoring agency, to merge it with Yandex.. Maps services.On June 20, 2008, Yandex announced the formation of Yandex Labs in Silicon Valley.
The main objective of the division is to foster "innovation in search and advertising technology".In September 2008, Yandex acquired the rights to the Punto Switcher software program, an automatic Russian to English keyboard layout switcher.In January 2009, Mozilla Firefox 3.5, replaced Google with Yandex as the default search provider for Russian-language builds.In August 2009, Yandex introduced a player of free legal music in its search results.


=== 2010s ===
In September 2010, Yandex launched the Yandex Music service and significantly extended its music catalogue to 800,000 tracks from 58,000 performers.On May 19, 2010, Yandex launched an English-only web search engine.In September 2010, Yandex invested in a $4.3 million financing round by Face.com.. The company was acquired by Facebook in 2012.
In December 2010, Yandex launched Yandex.Start to find startups and to work with them systematically.
As a result of the program, Yandex purchased WebVisor's behavior analysis technology in December 2010.On January 26, 2011, Yandex introduced premium placement opportunity in its Business directory; advertisers' local small businesses are highlighted on a map for relevant queries.On January 27, 2011, the company acquired single sign-in service Loginza.On May 3, 2011, as part of a disclosure on the "legal and political risks" of investing in Russia, before the listing on NASDAQ, Yandex revealed that it had passed private customer information to the Federal Security Service, including that of users who had donated money via Yandex to an anti-corruption website set-up by Alexei Navalny.On May 24, 2011, Yandex raised $1.3 billion in an initial public offering on NASDAQ.. It was the biggest initial public offering for a dot-com company since Google's offering in 2004.Google LLC is an American multinational technology company that specializes in Internet-related services and products, which include online advertising technologies, a search engine, cloud computing, software, and hardware.. It is considered one of the Big Four technology companies alongside Amazon, Apple and Microsoft.Google was founded in September 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin while they were Ph.D.
students at Stanford University in California.. Together they own about 14 percent of its shares and control 56 percent of the stockholder voting power through supervoting stock.
They incorporated Google as a California privately held company on September 4, 1998, in California.. Google was then reincorporated in Delaware on October 22, 2002.
An initial public offering (IPO) took place on August 19, 2004, and Google moved to its headquarters in Mountain View, California, nicknamed the  Googleplex.. In August 2015, Google announced plans to reorganize its various interests as a conglomerate called Alphabet Inc.
Google is Alphabet's leading subsidiary and will continue to be the umbrella company for Alphabet's Internet interests.. Sundar Pichai was appointed CEO of Google, replacing Larry Page who became the CEO of Alphabet.
The company's rapid growth since incorporation has triggered a chain of products, acquisitions, and partnerships beyond Google's core search engine (Google Search).
It offers services designed for work and productivity (Google Docs, Google Sheets, and Google Slides), email (Gmail), scheduling and time management (Google Calendar), cloud storage (Google Drive), instant messaging and video chat (Duo, Hangouts, and Meet), language translation (Google Translate), mapping and navigation (Google Maps, Waze, Google Earth, and Street View), podcast hosting (Google Podcasts), video sharing (YouTube), blog publishing (Blogger), note-taking (Google Keep, and Google Jamboard), and photo organizing and editing (Google Photos).. The company leads the development of the Android mobile operating system, the Google Chrome web browser, and Chrome OS, a lightweight operating system based on the Chrome browser.
Google has moved increasingly into hardware; from 2010 to 2015, it partnered with major electronics manufacturers in the production of its Nexus devices, and it released multiple hardware products in October 2016, including the Google Pixel smartphone, Google Home smart speaker, Google Wifi mesh wireless router, and Google Daydream virtual reality headset.. Google has also experimented with becoming an Internet carrier (Google Fiber, Google Fi, and Google Station).Google.com is the most visited website in the world.
Several other Google services also figure in the top 100 most visited websites, including YouTube and Blogger.. Google was the most valuable brand in the world in 2017 (surpassed by Amazon), but has received significant criticism involving issues such as privacy concerns, tax avoidance, antitrust, censorship, and search neutrality.


== History ==


=== Early years ===

Google began in January 1996 as a research project by Larry Page and Sergey Brin when they were both PhD students at Stanford University in Stanford, California.
The project initially involved an unofficial "third founder", Scott Hassan, the original lead programmer who wrote much of the code for the original Google Search engine, but he left before Google was officially founded as a company; Hassan went on to pursue a career in robotics and founded the company Willow Garage in 2006.While conventional search engines ranked results by counting how many times the search terms appeared on the page, they theorized about a better system that analyzed the relationships among websites.. They called this algorithm PageRank; it determined a website's relevance by the number of pages, and the importance of those pages that linked back to the original site.
Page told his ideas to Hassan, who began writing the code to implement Page's ideas.Page and Brin originally nicknamed the new search engine "BackRub", because the system checked backlinks to estimate the importance of a site.. Hassan as well as Alan Steremberg were cited by Page and Brin as being critical to the development of Google.
Rajeev Motwani and Terry Winograd later co-authored with Page and Brin the first paper about the project, describing PageRank and the initial prototype of the Google search engine, published in 1998.. Héctor García-Molina and Jeff Ullman were also cited as contributors to the project.
PageRank was influenced by a similar page-ranking and site-scoring algorithm earlier used for RankDex, developed by Robin Li in 1996, with Larry Page's PageRank patent including a citation to Li's earlier RankDex patent; Li later went on to create the Chinese search engine Baidu.Eventually, they changed the name to Google; the name of the search engine originated from a misspelling of the word "googol", the number 1 followed by 100 zeros, which was picked to signify that the search engine was intended to provide large quantities of information.

The domain name for Google was registered on September 15, 1997, and the company was incorporated on September 4, 1998.. It was based in the garage of a friend (Susan Wojcicki) in Menlo Park, California.
Craig Silverstein, a fellow PhD student at Stanford, was hired as the first employee.Google was initially funded by an August 1998 contribution of $100,000 from Andy Bechtolsheim, co-founder of Sun Microsystems; the money was given before Google was incorporated.. Google received money from three other angel investors in 1998: Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos, Stanford University computer science professor David Cheriton, and entrepreneur Ram Shriram.
Between these initial investors, friends, and family Google raised around 1 million dollars, which is what allowed them to open up their original shop in Menlo Park, California.After some additional, small investments through the end of 1998 to early 1999, a new $25 million round of funding was announced on June 7, 1999, with major investors including the venture capital firms Kleiner Perkins and Sequoia Capital.


=== Growth ===
In March 1999, the company moved its offices to Palo Alto, California, which is home to several prominent Silicon Valley technology start-ups.. The next year, Google began selling advertisements associated with search keywords against Page and Brin's initial opposition toward an advertising-funded search engine.
To maintain an uncluttered page design, advertisements were solely text-based.. In June 2000, it was announced that Google would become the default search engine provider for Yahoo!, one of the most popular websites at the time, replacing Inktomi.

In 2003, after outgrowing two other locations, the company leased an office complex from Silicon Graphics, at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View, California.
The complex became known as the Googleplex, a play on the word googolplex, the number one followed by a googol zeroes.. Three years later, Google bought the property from SGI for $319 million.
By that time, the name "Google" had found its way into everyday language, causing the verb "google" to be added to the Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary and the Oxford English Dictionary, denoted as: "to use the Google search engine to obtain information on the Internet".. Additionally, in 2001 Google's Investors felt the need to have a strong internal management, and they agreed to hire Eric Schmidt as the Chairman and CEO of Google 


=== Initial public offering ===
Google's initial public offering (IPO) took place five years later, on August 19, 2004.
At that time Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and Eric Schmidt agreed to work together at Google for 20 years, until the year 2024.. At IPO, the company offered 19,605,052 shares at a price of $85 per share.
Shares were sold in an online auction format using a system built by Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse, underwriters for the deal.. The sale of $1.67 billion gave Google a market capitalization of more than $23 billion.

In October 2006, Google announced that it had acquired the video-sharing site YouTube for $1.65 billion in Google stock, and the deal was finalized on November 13, 2006.
On April 13, 2007, Google reached an agreement to acquire DoubleClick for $3.1 billion, transferring to Google valuable relationships that DoubleClick had with Web publishers and advertising agencies.In 2005, The Washington Post reported on a 700 percent increase in third-quarter profit for Google, largely thanks to large companies shifting their advertising strategies from newspapers, magazines, and television to the Internet.. In May 2011, the number of monthly unique visitors to Google surpassed one billion for the first time.
By 2011, Google was handling approximately 3 billion searches per day.. To handle this workload, Google built 11 data centers around the world with some several thousand servers in each.
These data centers allowed Google to handle the ever changing workload more efficiently.On August 15, 2011, Google made its largest-ever acquisition to date when it announced that it would acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion This purchase was made in part to help Google gain Motorola's considerable patent portfolio on mobile phones and wireless technologies, to help protect Google in its ongoing patent disputes with other companies, mainly Apple and Microsoft, and to allow it to continue to freely offer Android.


=== 2012 onward ===
The year 2012 was the first time that Google generated $50 billion in annual revenue, generating $38 billion the previous year.. In January 2013, then-CEO Larry Page commented, "We ended 2012 with a strong quarter ...
Revenues were up 36% year-on-year, and 8% quarter-on-quarter.. And we hit $50 billion in revenues for the first time last year – not a bad achievement in just a decade and a half."In June 2013, Google acquired Waze, a $966 million deal.
While Waze would remain an independent entity, its social features, such as its crowdsourced location platform, were reportedly valuable integrations between Waze and Google Maps, Google's own mapping service.Google announced the launch of a new company, called Calico, on September 19, 2013, to be led by Apple Inc.. chairman Arthur Levinson.
In the official public statement, Page explained that the "health and well-being" company would focus on "the challenge of ageing and associated diseases".

On January 26, 2014, Google announced it had agreed to acquire DeepMind Technologies, a privately held artificial intelligence company from London.. Technology news website Recode reported that the company was purchased for $400 million though it was not disclosed where the information came from.
A Google spokesman would not comment of the price.. The purchase of DeepMind aids in Google's recent growth in the artificial intelligence and robotics community.According to Interbrand's annual Best Global Brands report, Google has been the second most valuable brand in the world (behind Apple Inc.) in 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016, with a valuation of $133 billion.On August 10, 2015, Google announced plans to reorganize its various interests as a conglomerate called Alphabet.
Google became Alphabet's leading subsidiary, and will continue to be the umbrella company for Alphabet's Internet interests.. Upon completion of the restructure, Sundar Pichai became CEO of Google, replacing Larry Page, who became CEO of Alphabet.As of October 2016, Google operates 70 offices in more than 40 countries.
Alexa, a company that monitors commercial web traffic, lists Google.com as the most visited website in the world.. Several other Google services also figure in the top 100 most visited websites, including YouTube and Blogger.On August 8, 2017, Google fired employee James Damore after he distributed a memo throughout the company which argued that bias and "Google's ideological echo chamber" clouded their thinking about diversity and inclusion, and that it is also biological factors, not discrimination alone, that cause the average woman to be less interested than men in technical positions.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai accused Damore in violating company policy by "advancing harmful gender stereotypes in our workplace", and he was fired on the same day.. New York Times columnist David Brooks argued Pichai had mishandled the case, and called for his resignation.Between 2018 and 2019, tensions between the company's leadership and its workers escalated as staff protested company decisions on internal sexual harassment, a censored Chinese search engine, and a military drone artificial intelligence, which had been seen as areas of revenue growth for the company.
On October 25, 2018, The New York Times published the exposé, "How Google Protected Andy Rubin, the ‘Father of Android’".. The company subsequently announced that "48 employees have been fired over the last two years" for sexual misconduct.
On November 1, 2018, more than 20,000 Google employees and contractors staged a global walk-out to protest the company's handling of sexual harassment complaints.. Later in 2019, some workers accused the company of retaliating against internal activists.On March 19, 2019, Google announced that it would enter the video game market, launching a cloud gaming platform called Stadia.On June 3, 2019, the United States Department of Justice reported that it would investigate Google for antitrust violations.In December 2019, it was reported that former PayPal Chief Operating Officer Bill Ready would become Google's new commerce chief.
Ready's role won't be directly involved with Google Pay.In April 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Google announced several cost-cutting measures.. Such measures included slowing down hiring for the remainder of 2020, except for of a small number of strategic areas, recalibrating the focus and pace of investments in areas like data centers and machines, and non-business essential marketing and travel.


== Products and services ==


=== Search engine ===

Google indexes billions of web pages to allow users to search for the information they desire through the use of keywords and operators.
According to comScore market research from November 2009, Google Search is the dominant search engine in the United States market, with a market share of 65.6%.. In May 2017, Google enabled a new "Personal" tab in Google Search, letting users search for content in their Google accounts' various services, including email messages from Gmail and photos from Google Photos.Google launched its Google News service in 2002, an automated service which summarizes news articles from various websites.
Google also hosts Google Books, a service which searches the text found in books in its database and shows limited previews or and the full book where allowed.


=== Advertising ===

As per its 2017 Annual report, Google generates most of its revenues from advertising.. This includes sales of apps, purchases made in-app, digital content products on google and YouTube, android and licensing and service fees, including fees received for Google Cloud offerings.
46% of this was from clicks (cost per clicks), amounting to US$109,652 million in 2017.. This includes three principal methods, namely AdMob, AdSense (such as AdSense for Content, AdSense for Search, etc.) and DoubleClick AdExchange.For the 2006 fiscal year, the company reported $10.492 billion in total advertising revenues and only $112 million in licensing and other revenues.
In 2011, 96% of Google's revenue was derived from its advertising programs.. In addition to its own algorithms for understanding search requests, Google uses technology from the company DoubleClick, to project user interest and target advertising to the search context and the user history.In 2007, Google launched "AdSense for Mobile", taking advantage of the emerging mobile advertising market.Google Analytics allows website owners to track where and how people use their website, for example by examining click rates for all the links on a page.
Google advertisements can be placed on third-party websites in a two-part program.. Google Ads allows advertisers to display their advertisements in the Google content network, through a cost-per-click scheme.
The sister service, Google AdSense, allows website owners to display these advertisements on their website and earn money every time ads are clicked.. One of the criticisms of this program is the possibility of click fraud, which occurs when a person or automated script clicks on advertisements without being interested in the product, causing the advertiser to pay money to Google unduly.
Industry reports in 2006 claimed that approximately 14 to 20 percent of clicks were fraudulent or invalid.. Google Search Console (rebranded from Google Webmaster Tools in May 2015) allows webmasters to check the sitemap, crawl rate, and for security issues of their websites, as well as optimize their website's visibility.


=== Consumer services ===


==== Web-based services ====
Google offers Gmail for email, Google Calendar for time-management and scheduling, Google Maps for mapping, navigation and satellite imagery, Google Drive for cloud storage of files, Google Docs, Sheets and Slides for productivity, Google Photos for photo storage and sharing, Google Keep for note-taking, Google Translate for language translation, YouTube for video viewing and sharing, Google My Business for managing public business information, and Duo for social interaction.
In March 2019, Google unveiled a cloud gaming service named Stadia.


==== Software ====
Google develops the Android mobile operating system, as well as its smartwatch, television, car, and Internet of things-enabled smart devices variations.It also develops the Google Chrome web browser, and Chrome OS, an operating system based on Chrome.


==== Hardware ====

In January 2010, Google released Nexus One, the first Android phone under its own brand, "Nexus".. It spawned a number of phones and tablets under the "Nexus" branding until its eventual discontinuation in 2016, replaced by a new brand called Pixel.In 2011, the Chromebook was introduced, described as a "new kind of computer" running Chrome OS.In July 2013, Google introduced the Chromecast dongle, that allows users to stream content from their smartphones to televisions.In June 2014, Google announced Google Cardboard, a simple cardboard viewer that lets user place their smartphone in a special front compartment to view virtual reality (VR) media.
The Pixel and Pixel XL smartphones with the Google Assistant, a next-generation contextual voice assistant, built-in.
Google Home, a voice assistant smart speaker that can answer voice queries, play music, find information from apps (calendar, weather etc.), and control third-party smart home appliances (users can tell it to turn on the lights, for example).
The Google Home line also includes variants such as the Google Nest Hub, Google Home Mini, Nest Hub Max, Nest Mini (second generation), and Google Home Max
Daydream View virtual reality headset that lets Android users with compatible Daydream-ready smartphones put their phones in the headset and enjoy VR content.
Google Wifi, a connected set of Wi-Fi routers to simplify and extend coverage of home Wi-Fi.In October 2018, Google announced the Pixel 3.. The phone was released initially in the United States on October 18, 2018 and other parts of the world on November 1, 2018.
They are the successors to the Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL.In May 2019, Google unveiled the Pixel 3a at Google I/O, seven months after the announcement of the original Pixel 3 lineup.. The new phones served as midrange variants of the Pixel 3 and Pixel 3 XL with a 12.2 megapixel rear camera, which is the same unit found on the Pixel 3, and a single 8 megapixel front-facing camera.
The base model came with a Snapdragon 670 chip and 4 GB of RAM, along with 64 GB of non-expandable internal storage.In October 2019, Google announced the Pixel 4, the first Pixel phone to be offered for sale by all major wireless carriers at launch.. The company also announced the second generation of its Pixel Buds, a line of wireless earbuds with the Google Assistant built-in that also support Google Translate.In November 2019, Google released a controller for Google Stadia.


=== Enterprise services ===

G Suite is a monthly subscription offering for organizations and businesses to get access to a collection of Google's services, including Gmail, Google Drive and Google Docs, Google Sheets and Google Slides, with additional administrative tools, unique domain names, and 24/7 support.On September 24, 2012, Google launched Google for Entrepreneurs, a largely not-for-profit business incubator providing startups with co-working spaces known as Campuses, with assistance to startup founders that may include workshops, conferences, and mentorships.
Presently, there are 7 Campus locations in Berlin, London, Madrid, Seoul, São Paulo, Tel Aviv, and Warsaw.
On March 15, 2016, Google announced the introduction of Google Analytics 360 Suite, "a set of integrated data and marketing analytics products, designed specifically for the needs of enterprise-class marketers" which can be integrated with BigQuery on the Google Cloud Platform.. Among other things, the suite is designed to help "enterprise class marketers" "see the complete customer journey", generate "useful insights", and "deliver engaging experiences to the right people".
Jack Marshall of The Wall Street Journal wrote that the suite competes with existing marketing cloud offerings by companies including Adobe, Oracle, Salesforce, and IBM.


=== Internet services ===
In February 2010, Google announced the Google Fiber project, with experimental plans to build an ultra-high-speed broadband network for 50,000 to 500,000 customers in one or more American cities.. Following Google's corporate restructure to make Alphabet Inc.
its parent company, Google Fiber was moved to Alphabet's Access division.In April 2015, Google announced Project Fi, a mobile virtual network operator, that combines Wi-Fi and cellular networks from different telecommunication providers in an effort to enable seamless connectivity and fast Internet signal.In September 2016, Google began its Google Station initiative, a project for public Wi-Fi at railway stations in India.. Caesar Sengupta, VP for Google's next billion users, told The Verge that 15,000 people get online for the first time thanks to Google Station and that 3.5 million people use the service every month.
The expansion meant that Google was looking for partners around the world to further develop the initiative, which promised "high-quality, secure, easily accessible Wi-Fi".. By December, Google Station had been deployed at 100 railway stations, and in February, Google announced its intention to expand beyond railway stations, with a plan to bring citywide Wi-Fi to Pune.


=== Other products ===
In May 2011, Google announced Google Wallet, a mobile application for wireless payments.In 2013, Google launched Google Shopping Express, a delivery service initially available only in San Francisco and Silicon Valley.


== Corporate affairs ==


=== Finance ===

Google's initial public offering (IPO) took place on August 19, 2004.
At IPO, the company offered 19,605,052 shares at a price of $85 per share.. The sale of $1.67 billion gave Google a market capitalization of more than $23 billion.
The stock performed well after the IPO, with shares hitting $350 for the first time on October 31, 2007, primarily because of strong sales and earnings in the online advertising market.. The surge in stock price was fueled mainly by individual investors, as opposed to large institutional investors and mutual funds.
GOOG shares split into GOOG class C shares and GOOGL class A shares.. The company is listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange under the ticker symbols GOOGL and GOOG, and on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol GGQ1.
These ticker symbols now refer to Alphabet Inc., Google's holding company, since the fourth quarter of 2015.The corporation's consolidated revenue for the third quarter of 2013 was reported in mid-October 2013 as $14.89 billion, a 12 percent increase compared to the previous quarter.. Google's Internet business was responsible for $10.8 billion of this total, with an increase in the number of users' clicks on advertisements.
By January 2014, Google's market capitalization had grown to $397 billion.Google uses various tax avoidance strategies.. Out of the five largest United States based technology companies, it pays the lowest taxes to the countries of origin of its revenues.
Google between 2007 and 2010 saved $3.1 billion in taxes by shuttling non-U.S.. profits through Ireland and the Netherlands and then to Bermuda.
Such techniques lower its non-U.S.. tax rate to 2.3 per cent, while normally the corporate tax rate in for instance the UK is 28 per cent.
This has reportedly sparked a French investigation into Google's transfer pricing practices.Google said it overhauled its controversial global tax structure and consolidated all of its intellectual property holdings back to the US.Google Vice-President Matt Brittin testified to the Public Accounts Committee of the UK House of Commons that his UK sales team made no sales and hence owed no sales taxes to the UK.. In January 2016, Google reached a settlement with the UK to pay £130m in back taxes plus higher taxes in future.
In 2017, Google channeled $22.7 billion from the Netherlands to Bermuda to reduce its tax bill.In 2013, Google ranked 5th in lobbying spending, up from 213th in 2003.. In 2012, the company ranked 2nd in campaign donations of technology and Internet sections.


=== Corporate identity ===

The name "Google" originated from a misspelling of "googol", which refers to the number represented by a 1 followed by one-hundred zeros.
Page and Brin write in their original paper on PageRank: "We chose our systems name, Google, because it is a common spelling of googol, or 10100 and fits well with our goal of building very large-scale search engines." Having found its way increasingly into everyday language, the verb "google" was added to the Merriam Webster Collegiate Dictionary and the Oxford English Dictionary in 2006, meaning "to use the Google search engine to obtain information on the Internet." Google's mission statement, from the outset, was "to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful", and its unofficial slogan is "Don't be evil".. In October 2015, a related motto was adopted in the Alphabet corporate code of conduct by the phrase: "Do the right thing".
The original motto was retained in the code of conduct of Google, now a subsidiary of Alphabet.
The original Google logo was designed by Sergey Brin.. Since 1998, Google has been designing special, temporary alternate logos to place on their homepage intended to celebrate holidays, events, achievements and people.
The first Google Doodle was in honor of the Burning Man Festival of 1998.. The doodle was designed by Larry Page and Sergey Brin to notify users of their absence in case the servers crashed.
Subsequent Google Doodles were designed by an outside contractor, until Larry and Sergey asked then-intern Dennis Hwang to design a logo for Bastille Day in 2000.. From that point onward, Doodles have been organized and created by a team of employees termed "Doodlers".Google has a tradition of creating April Fools' Day jokes.
Its first on April 1, 2000 was Google MentalPlex which allegedly featured the use of mental power to search the web.. In 2007, Google announced a free Internet service called TiSP, or Toilet Internet Service Provider, where one obtained a connection by flushing one end of a fiber-optic cable down their toilet.Google's services contain easter eggs, such as the Swedish Chef's "Bork bork bork," Pig Latin, "Hacker" or leetspeak, Elmer Fudd, Pirate, and Klingon as language selections for its search engine.
When searching for the word "anagram," meaning a rearrangement of letters from one word to form other valid words, Google's suggestion feature displays "Did you mean: nag a ram?"


=== Workplace culture ===

On Fortune magazine's list of the best companies to work for, Google ranked first in 2007, 2008 and 2012, and fourth in 2009 and 2010.. Google was also nominated in 2010 to be the world's most attractive employer to graduating students in the Universum Communications talent attraction index.
Google's corporate philosophy includes principles such as "you can make money without doing evil," "you can be serious without a suit," and "work should be challenging and the challenge should be fun."As of December 2018, Google has 98,771 employees.. Google's 2017 diversity report states that 31 percent of its workforce are women and 69 percent are men, with the ethnicity of its workforce being predominantly white (56%) and Asian (35%).
Within tech roles, however, 20 percent were women; and 25 percent of leadership roles were held by women.Google's employees are hired based on a hierarchical system.. Employees are split into six hierarchies based on experience and can range "from entry-level data center workers at level one to managers and experienced engineers at level six." As a motivation technique, Google uses a policy known as Innovation Time Off, where Google engineers are encouraged to spend 20% of their work time on projects that interest them.
Some of Google's services, such as Gmail, Google News, Orkut, and AdSense originated from these independent endeavors.. In a talk at Stanford University, Marissa Mayer, Google's Vice-President of Search Products and User Experience until July 2012, showed that half of all new product launches in the second half of 2005 had originated from the Innovation Time Off.In 2005, articles in The New York Times and other sources began suggesting that Google had lost its anti-corporate, no evil philosophy.
In an effort to maintain the company's unique culture, Google designated a Chief Culture Officer whose purpose was to develop and maintain the culture and work on ways to keep true to the core values that the company was founded on.. Google has also faced allegations of sexism and ageism from former employees.
In 2013, a class action against several Silicon Valley companies, including Google, was filed for alleged "no cold call" agreements which restrained the recruitment of high-tech employees.


=== Office locations ===

Google's headquarters in Mountain View, California is referred to as "the Googleplex", a play on words on the number googolplex and the headquarters itself being a complex of buildings.. Internationally, Google has over 78 offices in more than 50 countries.In 2006, Google moved into about 300,000 square feet (27,900 m2) of office space in New York City, at 111 Eighth Avenue in Manhattan.
The office was designed and built specially for Google, and houses its largest advertising sales team, which has been instrumental in securing large partnerships.. In 2010, Google bought the building housing the headquarter, in a deal that valued the property at around $1.9 billion.
In March 2018, Google's parent company Alphabet bought the nearby Chelsea Market building for $2.4 billion.. The sale is touted as one of the most expensive real estate transactions for a single building in the history of New York.Microsoft Corporation () is an American multinational technology company with headquarters in Redmond, Washington.. It develops, manufactures, licenses, supports, and sells computer software, consumer electronics, personal computers, and related services.
Its best known software products are the Microsoft Windows line of operating systems, the Microsoft Office suite, and the Internet Explorer and Edge web browsers.. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox video game consoles and the Microsoft Surface lineup of touchscreen personal computers.
In 2016, it was the world's largest software maker by revenue (currently Alphabet/Google has more revenue).. The word "Microsoft" is a portmanteau of "microcomputer" and "software".
Microsoft is ranked No.. 30 in the 2018 Fortune 500 rankings of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.
It is considered one of the Big Five technology companies alongside Amazon, Apple, Google, and Facebook.
Microsoft was founded by Bill Gates and Paul Allen on April 4, 1975, to develop and sell BASIC interpreters for the Altair 8800.. It rose to dominate the personal computer operating system market with MS-DOS in the mid-1980s, followed by Microsoft Windows.
The company's 1986 initial public offering (IPO), and subsequent rise in its share price, created three billionaires and an estimated 12,000 millionaires among Microsoft employees.. Since the 1990s, it has increasingly diversified from the operating system market and has made a number of corporate acquisitions, their largest being the acquisition of LinkedIn for $26.2 billion in December 2016, followed by their acquisition of Skype Technologies for $8.5 billion in May 2011.As of 2015, Microsoft is market-dominant in the IBM PC compatible operating system market and the office software suite market, although it has lost the majority of the overall operating system market to Android.
The company also produces a wide range of other consumer and enterprise software for desktops, laptops, tabs, gadgets, and servers, including Internet search (with Bing), the digital services market (through MSN), mixed reality (HoloLens), cloud computing (Azure), and software development (Visual Studio).
Steve Ballmer replaced Gates as CEO in 2000, and later envisioned a "devices and services" strategy.. This unfolded with Microsoft acquiring Danger Inc.
in 2008, entering the personal computer production market for the first time in June 2012 with the launch of the Microsoft Surface line of tablet computers, and later forming Microsoft Mobile through the acquisition of Nokia's devices and services division.. Since Satya Nadella took over as CEO in 2014, the company has scaled back on hardware and has instead focused on cloud computing, a move that helped the company's shares reach its highest value since December 1999.Earlier dethroned by Apple in 2010, in 2018 Microsoft reclaimed its position as the most valuable publicly traded company in the world.
In April 2019, Microsoft reached the trillion-dollar market cap, becoming the third U.S.. public company to be valued at over $1 trillion after Apple and Amazon respectively.


== History ==


=== 1972–1985: The founding of Microsoft ===

Childhood friends Bill Gates and Paul Allen sought to make a business utilizing their shared skills in computer programming.
In 1972, they founded Traf-O-Data which sold a rudimentary computer to track and analyze automobile traffic data.. Gates enrolled at Harvard while Allen pursued a degree in computer science at Washington State University, though he later dropped out of school to work at Honeywell.
The January 1975 issue of Popular Electronics featured Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems's (MITS) Altair 8800 microcomputer, which inspired Allen to suggest that they could program a BASIC interpreter for the device.. Gates called MITS and claimed that he had a working interpreter, and MITS requested a demonstration.
Allen worked on a simulator for the Altair while Gates developed the interpreter, and it worked flawlessly when they demonstrated it to MITS in March 1975 in Albuquerque, New Mexico.. MITS agreed to distribute it, marketing it as Altair BASIC.
Gates and Allen established Microsoft on April 4, 1975, with Gates as the CEO, and Allen suggested the name "Micro-Soft", short for micro-computer software.. In August 1977, the company formed an agreement with ASCII Magazine in Japan, resulting in its first international office of "ASCII Microsoft".
Microsoft moved its headquarters to Bellevue, Washington in January 1979.Microsoft entered the operating system (OS) business in 1980 with its own version of Unix called Xenix, but it was MS-DOS that solidified the company's dominance.. IBM awarded a contract to Microsoft in November 1980 to provide a version of the CP/M OS to be used in the IBM Personal Computer (IBM PC).
For this deal, Microsoft purchased a CP/M clone called 86-DOS from Seattle Computer Products which it branded as MS-DOS, although IBM rebranded it to IBM PC DOS.. Microsoft retained ownership of MS-DOS following the release of the IBM PC in August 1981.
IBM had copyrighted the IBM PC BIOS, so other companies had to reverse engineer it in order for non-IBM hardware to run as IBM PC compatibles, but no such restriction applied to the operating systems.. Microsoft eventually became the leading PC operating systems vendor.
The company expanded into new markets with the release of the Microsoft Mouse in 1983, as well as with a publishing division named Microsoft Press.
Paul Allen resigned from Microsoft in 1983 after developing Hodgkin's disease.. Allen claimed in Idea Man: A Memoir by the Co-founder of Microsoft that Gates wanted to dilute his share in the company when he was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease because he did not think that he was working hard enough.
Allen later invested in low-tech sectors, sports teams, commercial real estate, neuroscience, private space flight, and more.


=== 1985–1994: Windows and Office ===

Microsoft released Microsoft Windows on November 20, 1985, as a graphical extension for MS-DOS, despite having begun jointly developing OS/2 with IBM the previous August.. Microsoft moved its headquarters from Bellevue to Redmond, Washington on February 26, 1986, and went public on March 13, with the resulting rise in stock making an estimated four billionaires and 12,000 millionaires from Microsoft employees.
Microsoft released its version of OS/2 to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) on April 2, 1987.. In 1990, the Federal Trade Commission examined Microsoft for possible collusion due to the partnership with IBM, marking the beginning of more than a decade of legal clashes with the government.
Meanwhile, the company was at work on Microsoft Windows NT, which was heavily based on their copy of the OS/2 code.. It shipped on July 21, 1993, with a new modular kernel and the 32-bit Win32 application programming interface (API), making it easier to port from 16-bit (MS-DOS-based) Windows.
Microsoft informed IBM of Windows NT, and the OS/2 partnership deteriorated.In 1990, Microsoft introduced the Microsoft Office suite which bundled separate applications such as Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel.. On May 22, Microsoft launched Windows 3.0, featuring streamlined user interface graphics and improved protected mode capability for the Intel 386 processor, and both Office and Windows became dominant in their respective areas.On July 27, 1994, the Department of Justice's Antitrust Division filed a competitive impact statement which said: "Beginning in 1988, and continuing until July 15, 1994, Microsoft induced many OEMs to execute anti-competitive 'per processor' licenses.
Under a per processor license, an OEM pays Microsoft a royalty for each computer it sells containing a particular microprocessor, whether the OEM sells the computer with a Microsoft operating system or a non-Microsoft operating system.. In effect, the royalty payment to Microsoft when no Microsoft product is being used acts as a penalty, or tax, on the OEM's use of a competing PC operating system.
Since 1988, Microsoft's use of per processor licenses has increased."


=== 1995–2007: Foray into the Web, Windows 95, Windows XP, and Xbox ===

Following Bill Gates' internal "Internet Tidal Wave memo" on May 26, 1995, Microsoft began to redefine its offerings and expand its product line into computer networking and the World Wide Web.. With a few exceptions of new companies, like Netscape, Microsoft was the only major and established company that acted fast enough to be a part of the World Wide Web practically from the start.
Other companies like Borland, WordPerfect, Novell, IBM and Lotus, being much slower to adapt to the new situation, would give Microsoft a market dominance.. The company released Windows 95 on August 24, 1995, featuring pre-emptive multitasking, a completely new user interface with a novel start button, and 32-bit compatibility; similar to NT, it provided the Win32 API.
Windows 95 came bundled with the online service MSN, which was at first intended to be a competitor to the Internet, and (for OEMs) Internet Explorer, a Web browser.. Internet Explorer was not bundled with the retail Windows 95 boxes, because the boxes were printed before the team finished the Web browser, and instead was included in the Windows 95 Plus!
pack.. Branching out into new markets in 1996, Microsoft and General Electric's NBC unit created a new 24/7 cable news channel, MSNBC.
Microsoft created Windows CE 1.0, a new OS designed for devices with low memory and other constraints, such as personal digital assistants.. In October 1997, the Justice Department filed a motion in the Federal District Court, stating that Microsoft violated an agreement signed in 1994 and asked the court to stop the bundling of Internet Explorer with Windows.

On January 13, 2000, Bill Gates handed over the CEO position to Steve Ballmer, an old college friend of Gates and employee of the company since 1980, while creating a new position for himself as Chief Software Architect.
Various companies including Microsoft formed the Trusted Computing Platform Alliance in October 1999 to (among other things) increase security and protect intellectual property through identifying changes in hardware and software.. Critics decried the alliance as a way to enforce indiscriminate restrictions over how consumers use software, and over how computers behave, and as a form of digital rights management: for example the scenario where a computer is not only secured for its owner, but also secured against its owner as well.
On April 3, 2000, a judgment was handed down in the case of United States v.. Microsoft Corp., calling the company an "abusive monopoly." Microsoft later settled with the U.S.
Department of Justice in 2004.. On October 25, 2001, Microsoft released Windows XP, unifying the mainstream and NT lines of OS under the NT codebase.
The company released the Xbox later that year, entering the video game console market dominated by Sony and Nintendo.. In March 2004 the European Union brought antitrust legal action against the company, citing it abused its dominance with the Windows OS, resulting in a judgment of €497 million ($613 million) and requiring Microsoft to produce new versions of Windows XP without Windows Media Player: Windows XP Home Edition N and Windows XP Professional N.
In November 2005, the company's second video game console, the Xbox 360, was released.. There were two versions, a basic version for $299.99 and a deluxe version for $399.99.


=== 2007–2011: Microsoft Azure, Windows Vista, Windows 7, and Microsoft Stores ===

Released in January 2007, the next version of Windows, Vista, focused on features, security and a redesigned user interface dubbed Aero.
Microsoft Office 2007, released at the same time, featured a "Ribbon" user interface which was a significant departure from its predecessors.. Relatively strong sales of both products helped to produce a record profit in 2007.
The European Union imposed another fine of €899 million ($1.4 billion) for Microsoft's lack of compliance with the March 2004 judgment on February 27, 2008, saying that the company charged rivals unreasonable prices for key information about its workgroup and backoffice servers.. Microsoft stated that it was in compliance and that "these fines are about the past issues that have been resolved".
2007 also saw the creation of a multi-core unit at Microsoft, following the steps of server companies such as Sun and IBM.Gates retired from his role as Chief Software Architect on June 27, 2008, a decision announced in June 2006, while retaining other positions related to the company in addition to being an advisor for the company on key projects.. Azure Services Platform, the company's entry into the cloud computing market for Windows, launched on October 27, 2008.
On February 12, 2009, Microsoft announced its intent to open a chain of Microsoft-branded retail stores, and on October 22, 2009, the first retail Microsoft Store opened in Scottsdale, Arizona; the same day Windows 7 was officially released to the public.. Windows 7's focus was on refining Vista with ease-of-use features and performance enhancements, rather than an extensive reworking of Windows.As the smartphone industry boomed in 2007, Microsoft had struggled to keep up with its rivals Apple and Google in providing a modern smartphone operating system.
As a result, in 2010 Microsoft revamped their aging flagship mobile operating system, Windows Mobile, replacing it with the new Windows Phone OS.. Microsoft implemented a new strategy for the software industry that had them working more closely with smartphone manufacturers, such as Nokia, and providing a consistent user experience across all smartphones using the Windows Phone OS.
It used a new user interface design language, codenamed "Metro", which prominently used simple shapes, typography and iconography, utilizing the concept of minimalism.. Microsoft is a founding member of the Open Networking Foundation started on March 23, 2011.
Fellow founders were Google, HP Networking, Yahoo!, Verizon Communications, Deutsche Telekom and 17 other companies.. This nonprofit organization is focused on providing support for a cloud computing initiative called Software-Defined Networking.
The initiative is meant to speed innovation through simple software changes in telecommunications networks, wireless networks, data centers and other networking areas.


=== 2011–2014: Windows 8/8.1, Xbox One, Outlook.com, and Surface devices ===

Following the release of Windows Phone, Microsoft undertook a gradual rebranding of its product range throughout 2011 and 2012, with the corporation's logos, products, services and websites adopting the principles and concepts of the Metro design language.. Microsoft unveiled Windows 8, an operating system designed to power both personal computers and tablet computers, in Taipei in June 2011.
A developer preview was released on September 13, which was subsequently replaced by a consumer preview on February 29, 2012, and released to the public in May.. The Surface was unveiled on June 18, becoming the first computer in the company's history to have its hardware made by Microsoft.
On June 25, Microsoft paid US$1.2 billion to buy the social network Yammer.. On July 31, they launched the Outlook.com webmail service to compete with Gmail.
On September 4, 2012, Microsoft released Windows Server 2012.In July 2012, Microsoft sold its 50% stake in MSNBC, which it had run as a joint venture with NBC since 1996.. On October 1, Microsoft announced its intention to launch a news operation, part of a new-look MSN, with Windows 8 later in the month.
On October 26, 2012, Microsoft launched Windows 8 and the Microsoft Surface.. Three days later, Windows Phone 8 was launched.
To cope with the potential for an increase in demand for products and services, Microsoft opened a number of "holiday stores" across the U.S.. to complement the increasing number of "bricks-and-mortar" Microsoft Stores that opened in 2012.
On March 29, 2013, Microsoft launched a Patent Tracker.In August 2012, the New York City Police Department announced a partnership with Microsoft for the development of the Domain Awareness System which is used for Police surveillance in New York City.

The Kinect, a motion-sensing input device made by Microsoft and designed as a video game controller, first introduced in November 2010, was upgraded for the 2013 release of the Xbox One video game console.. Kinect's capabilities were revealed in May 2013: an ultra-wide 1080p camera, function in the dark due to an infrared sensor, higher-end processing power and new software, the ability to distinguish between fine movements (such as a thumb movements), and determining a user's heart rate by looking at their face.
Microsoft filed a patent application in 2011 that suggests that the corporation may use the Kinect camera system to monitor the behavior of television viewers as part of a plan to make the viewing experience more interactive.. On July 19, 2013, Microsoft stocks suffered its biggest one-day percentage sell-off since the year 2000, after its fourth-quarter report raised concerns among the investors on the poor showings of both Windows 8 and the Surface tablet.
Microsoft suffered a loss of more than US$32 billion.In line with the maturing PC business, in July 2013, Microsoft announced that it would reorganize the business into four new business divisions, namely Operating System, Apps, Cloud, and Devices.. All previous divisions will be dissolved into new divisions without any workforce cuts.
On September 3, 2013, Microsoft agreed to buy Nokia's mobile unit for $7 billion, following Amy Hood taking the role of CFO.


=== 2014–present: Windows 10, Microsoft Edge and HoloLens ===

On February 4, 2014, Steve Ballmer stepped down as CEO of Microsoft and was succeeded by Satya Nadella, who previously led Microsoft's Cloud and Enterprise division.. On the same day, John W.
Thompson took on the role of chairman, in place of Bill Gates, who continued to participate as a technology advisor.. Thompson became the second chairman in Microsoft's history.
On April 25, 2014, Microsoft acquired Nokia Devices and Services for $7.2 billion.. This new subsidiary was renamed Microsoft Mobile Oy.
On September 15, 2014, Microsoft acquired the video game development company Mojang, best known for Minecraft, for $2.5 billion.. On June 8, 2017, Microsoft acquired Hexadite, an Israeli security firm, for $100 million.On January 21, 2015, Microsoft announced the release of their first Interactive whiteboard, Microsoft Surface Hub.
On July 29, 2015, Windows 10 was released, with its server sibling, Windows Server 2016, released in September 2016.. In Q1 2015, Microsoft was the third largest maker of mobile phones, selling 33 million units (7.2% of all).
While a large majority (at least 75%) of them do not run any version of Windows Phone— those other phones are not categorized as smartphones by Gartner –  in the same time frame 8 million Windows smartphones (2.5% of all smartphones) were made by all manufacturers (but mostly by Microsoft).. Microsoft's share of the U.S.
smartphone market in January 2016 was 2.7%.. During the summer of 2015 the company lost $7.6 billion related to its mobile-phone business, firing 7,800 employees.On March 1, 2016, Microsoft announced the merger of its PC and Xbox divisions, with Phil Spencer announcing that Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps would be the focus for Microsoft's gaming in the future.
On January 24, 2017, Microsoft showcased Intune for Education at the BETT 2017 education technology conference in London.. Intune for Education is a new cloud-based application and device management service for the education sector.
In May 2016, the company announced it was laying off 1,850 workers, and taking an impairment and restructuring charge of $950 million.. In June 2016, Microsoft announced a project named Microsoft Azure Information Protection.
It aims to help enterprises protect their data as it moves between servers and devices.. In November 2016, Microsoft joined the Linux Foundation as a Platinum member during Microsoft's Connect(); developer event in New York.
The cost of each Platinum membership is US$500,000 per year.. Some analysts deemed this unthinkable ten years prior, however, as in 2001 then-CEO Steve Ballmer called Linux "cancer".
Microsoft planned to launch a preview of Intune for Education "in the coming weeks", with general availability scheduled for spring 2017, priced at $30 per device, or through volume licensing agreements.

In January 2018, Microsoft patched Windows 10 to account for CPU problems related to Intel's Meltdown security breach.. The patch led to issues with the Microsoft Azure virtual machines reliant on Intel's CPU architecture.
On January 12, Microsoft released PowerShell Core 6.0 for the macOS and Linux operating systems.. In February 2018, Microsoft killed notification support for their Windows Phone devices which effectively ended firmware updates for the discontinued devices.
In March 2018, Microsoft recalled Windows 10 S to change it to a mode for the Windows operating system rather than a separate and unique operating system.. In March the company also established guidelines that censor users of Office 365 from using profanity in private documents.
In April 2018, Microsoft released the source code for Windows File Manager under the MIT License to celebrate the program's 20th anniversary.. In April the company further expressed willingness to embrace open source initiatives by announcing Azure Sphere as its own derivative of the Linux operating system.
In May 2018, Microsoft partnered with 17 American intelligence agencies to develop cloud computing products.. The project is dubbed "Azure Government" and has ties to the Joint Enterprise Defense Infrastructure (JEDI) surveillance program.
On June 4, 2018, Microsoft officially announced the acquisition of GitHub for $7.5 billion, a deal that closed on October 26, 2018.. On July 10, 2018, Microsoft revealed the Surface Go platform to the public.
Later in the month it converted Microsoft Teams to gratis.. In August 2018, Microsoft released two projects called Microsoft AccountGuard and Defending Democracy.
It also unveiled Snapdragon 850 compatibility for Windows 10 on the ARM architecture.

In August 2018, Toyota Tsusho began a partnership with Microsoft to create fish farming tools using the Microsoft Azure application suite for Internet of things (IoT) technologies related to water management.. Developed in part by researchers from Kindai University, the water pump mechanisms use artificial intelligence to count the number of fish on a conveyor belt, analyze the number of fish, and deduce the effectiveness of water flow from the data the fish provide.
The specific computer programs used in the process fall under the Azure Machine Learning and the Azure IoT Hub platforms.. In September 2018, Microsoft discontinued Skype Classic.
On October 10, 2018, Microsoft joined the Open Invention Network community despite holding more than 60,000 patents.. In November 2018, Microsoft agreed to supply 100,000 Microsoft HoloLens headsets to the United States military in order to "increase lethality by enhancing the ability to detect, decide and engage before the enemy." In November 2018, Microsoft introduced Azure Multi-Factor Authentication for Microsoft Azure.
In December 2018, Microsoft announced Project Mu, an open source release of the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) core used in Microsoft Surface and Hyper-V products.. The project promotes the idea of Firmware as a Service.
In the same month, Microsoft announced the open source implementation of Windows Forms and the Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) which will allow for further movement of the company toward the transparent release of key frameworks used in developing Windows desktop applications and software.. December also saw the company discontinue the Microsoft Edge project in favor of Chromium backends for their browsers.February 20, 2019 Microsoft Corp said it will offer its cyber security service AccountGuard to 12 new markets in Europe including Germany, France and Spain, to close security gaps and protect customers in political space from hacking.
In February 2019, hundreds of Microsoft employees protested the company's war profiteering from a $480 million contract to develop virtual reality headsets for the United States Army.On March 26, 2020, Microsoft announced it was acquiring Affirmed Networks for about $1.35 billion.Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Microsoft closed all of its retail stores indefinitely due to health concerns.


== Corporate affairs ==


=== Board of directors ===
The company is run by a board of directors made up of mostly company outsiders, as is customary for publicly traded companies.. Members of the board of directors as of January 2018 are Bill Gates, Satya Nadella, Reid Hoffman, Hugh Johnston, Teri List-Stoll, Charles Noski, Helmut Panke, Sandi Peterson, Penny Pritzker, Charles Scharf, Arne Sorenson, John W.
Stanton, John W.. Thompson and Padmasree Warrior.
Board members are elected every year at the annual shareholders' meeting using a majority vote system.. There are five committees within the board which oversee more specific matters.
These committees include the Audit Committee, which handles accounting issues with the company including auditing and reporting; the Compensation Committee, which approves compensation for the CEO and other employees of the company; the Finance Committee, which handles financial matters such as proposing mergers and acquisitions; the Governance and Nominating Committee, which handles various corporate matters including nomination of the board; and the Antitrust Compliance Committee, which attempts to prevent company practices from violating antitrust laws.On March 13, 2020, Gates announced that he is leaving the board of directors of Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway in order to focus more on his philanthropic efforts.. According to Aaron Tilley of The Wall Street Journal this is "marking the biggest boardroom departure in the tech industry since the death of longtime rival and Apple Inc.
co-founder Steve Jobs."


=== Financial ===

When Microsoft went public and launched its Initial Public Offering (IPO) in 1986, the opening stock price was $21; after the trading day, the price closed at $27.75.. As of July 2010, with the company's nine stock splits, any IPO shares would be multiplied by 288; if one were to buy the IPO today, given the splits and other factors, it would cost about 9 cents.
The stock price peaked in 1999 at around $119 ($60.928, adjusting for splits).. The company began to offer a dividend on January 16, 2003, starting at eight cents per share for the fiscal year followed by a dividend of sixteen cents per share the subsequent year, switching from yearly to quarterly dividends in 2005 with eight cents a share per quarter and a special one-time payout of three dollars per share for the second quarter of the fiscal year.
Though the company had subsequent increases in dividend payouts, the price of Microsoft's stock remained steady for years.Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service have both given a AAA rating to Microsoft, whose assets were valued at $41 billion as compared to only $8.5 billion in unsecured debt.. Consequently, in February 2011 Microsoft released a corporate bond amounting to $2.25 billion with relatively low borrowing rates compared to government bonds.
For the first time in 20 years Apple Inc.. surpassed Microsoft in Q1 2011 quarterly profits and revenues due to a slowdown in PC sales and continuing huge losses in Microsoft's Online Services Division (which contains its search engine Bing).
Microsoft profits were $5.2 billion, while Apple Inc.. profits were $6 billion, on revenues of $14.5 billion and $24.7 billion respectively.
Microsoft's Online Services Division has been continuously loss-making since 2006 and in Q1 2011 it lost $726 million.. This follows a loss of $2.5 billion for the year 2010.On July 20, 2012, Microsoft posted its first quarterly loss ever, despite earning record revenues for the quarter and fiscal year, with a net loss of $492 million due to a writedown related to the advertising company aQuantive, which had been acquired for $6.2 billion back in 2007.
As of January 2014, Microsoft's market capitalization stood at $314B, making it the 8th largest company in the world by market capitalization.. On November 14, 2014, Microsoft overtook ExxonMobil to become the second most-valuable company by market capitalization, behind only Apple Inc.
Its total market value was over $410B—with the stock price hitting $50.04 a share, the highest since early 2000.. In 2015, Reuters reported that Microsoft Corp had earnings abroad of $76.4 billion which were untaxed by the Internal Revenue Service.An apple is an edible fruit produced by an apple tree (Malus domestica).. Apple trees are cultivated worldwide and are the most widely grown species in the genus Malus.
The tree originated in Central Asia, where its wild ancestor, Malus sieversii, is still found today.. Apples have been grown for thousands of years in Asia and Europe and were brought to North America by European colonists.
Apples have religious and mythological significance in many cultures, including Norse, Greek and European Christian tradition.
Apple trees are large if grown from seed.. Generally, apple cultivars are propagated by grafting onto rootstocks, which control the size of the resulting tree.
There are more than 7,500 known cultivars of apples, resulting in a range of desired characteristics.. Different cultivars are bred for various tastes and use, including cooking, eating raw and cider production.
Trees and fruit are prone to a number of fungal, bacterial and pest problems, which can be controlled by a number of organic and non-organic means.. In 2010, the fruit's genome was sequenced as part of research on disease control and selective breeding in apple production.
Worldwide production of apples in 2018 was 86 million tonnes, with China accounting for nearly half of the total.


== Etymology ==
The word "apple", formerly spelled æppel in Old English, is derived from the Proto-Germanic root *ap(a)laz, which could also mean fruit in general.
This is ultimately derived from Proto-Indo-European *ab(e)l-, but the precise original meaning and the relationship between both words is uncertain.
As late as the 17th century, the word also functioned as a generic term for all fruit other than berries but including nuts—such as the 14th century Middle English word appel of paradis, meaning a banana.. This use is analogous to the French language use of pomme.


== Description ==

The apple is a deciduous tree, generally standing 2 to 4.5 m (6 to 15 ft) tall in cultivation and up to 9 m (30 ft) in the wild.
When cultivated, the size, shape and branch density are determined by rootstock selection and trimming method.. The leaves are alternately arranged dark green-colored simple ovals with serrated margins and slightly downy undersides.

Blossoms are produced in spring simultaneously with the budding of the leaves and are produced on spurs and some long shoots.
The 3 to 4 cm (1 to 1 1⁄2 in) flowers are white with a pink tinge that gradually fades, five petaled, with an inflorescence consisting of a cyme with 4–6 flowers.. The central flower of the inflorescence is called the "king bloom"; it opens first and can develop a larger fruit.The fruit matures in late summer or autumn, and cultivars exist in a wide range of sizes.
Commercial growers aim to produce an apple that is 7 to 8.5 cm (2 3⁄4 to 3 1⁄4 in) in diameter, due to market preference.. Some consumers, especially those in Japan, prefer a larger apple, while apples below 5.5 cm (2 1⁄4 in) are generally used for making juice and have little fresh market value.
The skin of ripe apples is generally red, yellow, green, pink, or russetted, though many bi- or tri-colored cultivars may be found.. The skin may also be wholly or partly russeted i.e.
rough and brown.. The skin is covered in a protective layer of epicuticular wax.
The exocarp (flesh) is generally pale yellowish-white, though pink or yellow exocarps also occur.


=== Wild ancestors ===

The original wild ancestor of Malus domestica was Malus sieversii, found growing wild in the mountains of Central Asia in southern Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Xinjiang, China.. Cultivation of the species, most likely beginning on the forested flanks of the Tian Shan mountains, progressed over a long period of time and permitted secondary introgression of genes from other species into the open-pollinated seeds.
Significant exchange with Malus sylvestris, the crabapple, resulted in current populations of apples being more related to crabapples than to the more morphologically similar progenitor Malus sieversii.. In strains without recent admixture the contribution of the latter predominates.


=== Genome ===
In 2010, an Italian-led consortium announced they had sequenced the complete genome of the apple in collaboration with horticultural genomicists at Washington State University, using 'Golden Delicious'.
It had about 57,000 genes, the highest number of any plant genome studied to date and more genes than the human genome (about 30,000).. This new understanding of the apple genome will help scientists identify genes and gene variants that contribute to resistance to disease and drought, and other desirable characteristics.
Understanding the genes behind these characteristics will help scientists perform more knowledgeable selective breeding.. The genome sequence also provided proof that Malus sieversii was the wild ancestor of the domestic apple—an issue that had been long-debated in the scientific community.


== History ==

Malus sieversii is recognized as a major progenitor species to the cultivated apple, and is morphologically similar.
Due to the genetic variability in Central Asia, this region is generally considered the center of origin for apples.. The apple is thought to have been domesticated 4000-10000 years ago in the Tian Shan Mountains, and then to have travelled along the Silk Road to Europe, with hybridization and introgression of wild crabapples from Siberia (M.
baccata (L.) Borkh.), Caucasus (M.. orientalis Uglitz.), and Europe (M.
sylvestris Mill.).. Only the M.
sieversii trees growing on the western side of Tian Shan Mountains contributed genetically to the domesticated apple, not the isolated population on the eastern side.Chinese soft apples, such as M.. asiatica and M.
prunifolia, have been cultivated as dessert apples for more than 2000 years in China.. These are thought to be hybrids between M.
baccata and M.. sieversii in Kazakhstan.Among the traits selected for by human growers are size, fruit acidity, color, firmness, and soluble sugar.
Unusually for domesticated fruits, the wild M.. sieversii origin is only slightly smaller than the modern domesticated apple.At the Sammardenchia-Cueis site near Udine in Northeastern Italy, seeds from some form of apples have been found in material carbon dated to around 4000 BCE.
Genetic analysis has not yet been successfully used to determine whether such ancient apples were wild Malus Sylvestris or Malus Domesticus containing Malus sieversii ancestry.. It is generally also hard to distinguish in the archeological record between foraged wild apples and apple plantations.
There is indirect evidence of apple cultivation in the third millennium BCE in the Middle East.
There was substantial apple production  in the European classical antiquity, and grafting was certainly known then.. Grafting is an essential part of modern domesticated apple production, to be able to propagate the best cultivars; it is unclear when apple tree grafting was invented.Winter apples, picked in late autumn and stored just above freezing, have been an important food in Asia and Europe for millennia.
Of the many Old World plants that the Spanish introduced to Chiloé Archipelago in the 16th century, apple trees became particularly well adapted.
Apples were introduced to North America by colonists in the 17th century, and the first apple orchard on the North American continent was planted in Boston by Reverend William Blaxton in 1625.. The only apples native to North America are crab apples, which were once called "common apples".
Apple cultivars brought as seed from Europe were spread along Native American trade routes, as well as being cultivated on colonial farms.. An 1845 United States apples nursery catalogue sold 350 of the "best" cultivars, showing the proliferation of new North American cultivars by the early 19th century.
In the 20th century, irrigation projects in Eastern Washington began and allowed the development of the multibillion-dollar fruit industry, of which the apple is the leading product.Until the 20th century, farmers stored apples in frostproof cellars during the winter for their own use or for sale.. Improved transportation of fresh apples by train and road replaced the necessity for storage.
Controlled atmosphere facilities are used to keep apples fresh year-round.. Controlled atmosphere facilities use high humidity, low oxygen, and controlled carbon dioxide levels to maintain fruit freshness.
They were first used in the United States in the 1960s.


== Society and culture ==


=== Germanic paganism ===

In Norse mythology, the goddess Iðunn is portrayed in the Prose Edda (written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson) as providing apples to the gods that give them eternal youthfulness.. English scholar H.
R.. Ellis Davidson links apples to religious practices in Germanic paganism, from which Norse paganism developed.
She points out that buckets of apples were found in the Oseberg ship burial site in Norway, that fruit and nuts (Iðunn having been described as being transformed into a nut in Skáldskaparmál) have been found in the early graves of the Germanic peoples in England and elsewhere on the continent of Europe, which may have had a symbolic meaning, and that nuts are still a recognized symbol of fertility in southwest England.Davidson notes a connection between apples and the Vanir, a tribe of gods associated with fertility in Norse mythology, citing an instance of eleven "golden apples" being given to woo the beautiful Gerðr by Skírnir, who was acting as messenger for the major Vanir god Freyr in stanzas 19 and 20 of Skírnismál.. Davidson also notes a further connection between fertility and apples in Norse mythology in chapter 2 of the Völsunga saga when the major goddess Frigg sends King Rerir an apple after he prays to Odin for a child, Frigg's messenger (in the guise of a crow) drops the apple in his lap as he sits atop a mound.
Rerir's wife's consumption of the apple results in a six-year pregnancy and the Caesarean section birth of their son—the hero Völsung.Further, Davidson points out the "strange" phrase "Apples of Hel" used in an 11th-century poem by the skald Thorbiorn Brúnarson.. She states this may imply that the apple was thought of by Brúnarson as the food of the dead.
Further, Davidson notes that the potentially Germanic goddess Nehalennia is sometimes depicted with apples and that parallels exist in early Irish stories.. Davidson asserts that while cultivation of the apple in Northern Europe extends back to at least the time of the Roman Empire and came to Europe from the Near East, the native varieties of apple trees growing in Northern Europe are small and bitter.
Davidson concludes that in the figure of Iðunn "we must have a dim reflection of an old symbol: that of the guardian goddess of the life-giving fruit of the other world."


=== Greek mythology ===

Apples appear in many religious traditions, often as a mystical or forbidden fruit.. One of the problems identifying apples in religion, mythology and folktales is that the word "apple" was used as a generic term for all (foreign) fruit, other than berries, including nuts, as late as the 17th century.
For instance, in Greek mythology, the Greek hero Heracles, as a part of his Twelve Labours, was required to travel to the Garden of the Hesperides and pick the golden apples off the Tree of Life growing at its center.The Greek goddess of discord, Eris, became disgruntled after she was excluded from the wedding of Peleus and Thetis.. In retaliation, she tossed a golden apple inscribed Καλλίστη (Kalliste, sometimes transliterated Kallisti, "For the most beautiful one"), into the wedding party.
Three goddesses claimed the apple: Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite.. Paris of Troy was appointed to select the recipient.
After being bribed by both Hera and Athena, Aphrodite tempted him with the most beautiful woman in the world, Helen of Sparta.. He awarded the apple to Aphrodite, thus indirectly causing the Trojan War.The apple was thus considered, in ancient Greece, sacred to Aphrodite.
To throw an apple at someone was to symbolically declare one's love; and similarly, to catch it was to symbolically show one's acceptance of that love.. An epigram claiming authorship by Plato states:
I throw the apple at you, and if you are willing to love me, take it and share your girlhood with me; but if your thoughts are what I pray they are not, even then take it, and consider how short-lived is beauty.
Atalanta, also of Greek mythology, raced all her suitors in an attempt to avoid marriage.
She outran all but Hippomenes (also known as Melanion, a name possibly derived from melon the Greek word for both "apple" and fruit in general), who defeated her by cunning, not speed.. Hippomenes knew that he could not win in a fair race, so he used three golden apples (gifts of Aphrodite, the goddess of love) to distract Atalanta.
It took all three apples and all of his speed, but Hippomenes was finally successful, winning the race and Atalanta's hand.


=== Christian art ===

Though the forbidden fruit of Eden in the Book of Genesis is not identified, popular Christian tradition has held that it was an apple that Eve coaxed Adam to share with her.. The origin of the popular identification with a fruit unknown in the Middle East in biblical times is found in confusion between the Latin words mālum (an apple) and mălum (an evil), each of which is normally written malum.
The tree of the forbidden fruit is called "the tree of the knowledge of good and evil" in Genesis 2:17, and the Latin for "good and evil" is bonum et malum.Renaissance painters may also have been influenced by the story of the golden apples in the Garden of Hesperides.. As a result, in the story of Adam and Eve, the apple became a symbol for knowledge, immortality, temptation, the fall of man into sin, and sin itself.
The larynx in the human throat has been called the "Adam's apple" because of a notion that it was caused by the forbidden fruit remaining in the throat of Adam.. The apple as symbol of sexual seduction has been used to imply human sexuality, possibly in an ironic vein.


=== Proverb ===
The proverb, "An apple a day keeps the doctor away", addressing the supposed health benefits of the fruit, has been traced to 19th-century Wales, where the original phrase was "Eat an apple on going to bed, and you'll keep the doctor from earning his bread".
In the 19th century and early 20th, the phrase evolved to "an apple a day, no doctor to pay" and "an apple a day sends the doctor away"; the phrasing now commonly used was first recorded in 1922.. Despite the proverb, there is no evidence that eating an apple daily has any significant health effects.


== Cultivars ==

There are more than 7,500 known cultivars of apples.
Cultivars vary in their yield and the ultimate size of the tree, even when grown on the same rootstock.. Different cultivars are available for temperate and subtropical climates.
The UK's National Fruit Collection, which is the responsibility of the Department of Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs, includes a collection of over 2,000 cultivars of apple tree in Kent.. The University of Reading, which is responsible for developing the UK national collection database, provides access to search the national collection.
The University of Reading's work is part of the European Cooperative Programme for Plant Genetic Resources of which there are 38 countries participating in the Malus/Pyrus work group.The UK's national fruit collection database contains much information on the characteristics and origin of many apples, including alternative names for what is essentially the same "genetic" apple cultivar.. Most of these cultivars are bred for eating fresh (dessert apples), though some are cultivated specifically for cooking (cooking apples) or producing cider.
Cider apples are typically too tart and astringent to eat fresh, but they give the beverage a rich flavor that dessert apples cannot.Commercially popular apple cultivars are soft but crisp.. Other desirable qualities in modern commercial apple breeding are a colorful skin, absence of russeting, ease of shipping, lengthy storage ability, high yields, disease resistance, common apple shape, and developed flavor.
Modern apples are generally sweeter than older cultivars, as popular tastes in apples have varied over time.. Most North Americans and Europeans favor sweet, subacid apples, but tart apples have a strong minority following.
Extremely sweet apples with barely any acid flavor are popular in Asia, especially the Indian Subcontinent.Old cultivars are often oddly shaped, russeted, and grow in a variety of textures and colors.. Some find them to have better flavor than modern cultivars, but they may have other problems that make them commercially unviable—low yield, disease susceptibility, poor tolerance for storage or transport, or just being the "wrong" size.
A few old cultivars are still produced on a large scale, but many have been preserved by home gardeners and farmers that sell directly to local markets.. Many unusual and locally important cultivars with their own unique taste and appearance exist; apple conservation campaigns have sprung up around the world to preserve such local cultivars from extinction.
In the United Kingdom, old cultivars such as 'Cox's Orange Pippin' and 'Egremont Russet' are still commercially important even though by modern standards they are low yielding and susceptible to disease.

		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		


== Cultivation ==


=== Breeding ===

Many apples grow readily from seeds.. However, more than with most perennial fruits, apples must be propagated asexually to obtain the sweetness and other desirable characteristics of the parent.
This is because seedling apples are an example of "extreme heterozygotes", in that rather than inheriting genes from their parents to create a new apple with parental characteristics, they are instead significantly different from their parents, perhaps to compete with the many pests.. Triploid cultivars have an additional reproductive barrier in that 3 sets of chromosomes cannot be divided evenly during meiosis, yielding unequal segregation of the chromosomes (aneuploids).
Even in the case when a triploid plant can produce a seed (apples are an example), it occurs infrequently, and seedlings rarely survive.Because apples do not breed true when planted as seeds, although cuttings can take root and breed true, and may live for a century, grafting is usually used.. The rootstock used for the bottom of the graft can be selected to produce trees of a large variety of sizes, as well as changing the winter hardiness, insect and disease resistance, and soil preference of the resulting tree.
Dwarf rootstocks can be used to produce very small trees (less than 3.0 m or 10 ft high at maturity), which bear fruit many years earlier in their life cycle than full size trees, and are easier to harvest.. Dwarf rootstocks for apple trees can be traced as far back as 300 BCE, to the area of Persia and Asia Minor.
Alexander the Great sent samples of dwarf apple trees to Aristotle's Lyceum.. Dwarf rootstocks became common by the 15th century and later went through several cycles of popularity and decline throughout the world.
The majority of the rootstocks used today to control size in apples were developed in England in the early 1900s.. The East Malling Research Station conducted extensive research into rootstocks, and today their rootstocks are given an "M" prefix to designate their origin.
Rootstocks marked with an "MM" prefix are Malling-series cultivars later crossed with trees of 'Northern Spy' in Merton, England.Most new apple cultivars originate as seedlings, which either arise by chance or are bred by deliberately crossing cultivars with promising characteristics.. The words "seedling", "pippin", and "kernel" in the name of an apple cultivar suggest that it originated as a seedling.
Apples can also form bud sports (mutations on a single branch).. Some bud sports turn out to be improved strains of the parent cultivar.
Some differ sufficiently from the parent tree to be considered new cultivars.Since the 1930s, the Excelsior Experiment Station at the University of Minnesota has introduced a steady progression of important apples that are widely grown, both commercially and by local orchardists, throughout Minnesota and Wisconsin.. Its most important contributions have included 'Haralson' (which is the most widely cultivated apple in Minnesota), 'Wealthy', 'Honeygold', and 'Honeycrisp'.
Apples have been acclimatized in Ecuador at very high altitudes, where they can often, with the needed factors, provide crops twice per year because of constant temperate conditions year-round.


=== Pollination ===

Apples are self-incompatible; they must cross-pollinate to develop fruit.
During the flowering each season, apple growers often utilize pollinators to carry pollen.. Honey bees are most commonly used.
Orchard mason bees are also used as supplemental pollinators in commercial orchards.. Bumblebee queens are sometimes present in orchards, but not usually in sufficient number to be significant pollinators.There are four to seven pollination groups in apples, depending on climate:

Group A – Early flowering, 1 to 3 May in England ('Gravenstein', 'Red Astrachan')
Group B – 4 to 7 May ('Idared', 'McIntosh')
Group C – Mid-season flowering, 8 to 11 May ('Granny Smith', 'Cox's Orange Pippin')
Group D – Mid/late season flowering, 12 to 15 May ('Golden Delicious', 'Calville blanc d'hiver')
Group E – Late flowering, 16 to 18 May ('Braeburn', 'Reinette d'Orléans')
Group F – 19 to 23 May ('Suntan')
Group H – 24 to 28 May ('Court-Pendu Gris' – also called Court-Pendu plat)One cultivar can be pollinated by a compatible cultivar from the same group or close (A with A, or A with B, but not A with C or D).Cultivars are sometimes classified by the day of peak bloom in the average 30-day blossom period, with pollenizers selected from cultivars within a 6-day overlap period.


=== Maturation and harvest ===

Cultivars vary in their yield and the ultimate size of the tree, even when grown on the same rootstock.
Some cultivars, if left unpruned, grow very large—letting them bear more fruit, but making harvesting more difficult.. Depending on tree density (number of trees planted per unit surface area), mature trees typically bear 40–200 kg (90–440 lb) of apples each year, though productivity can be close to zero in poor years.
Apples are harvested using three-point ladders that are designed to fit amongst the branches.. Trees grafted on dwarfing rootstocks bear about 10–80 kg (20–180 lb) of fruit per year.Farms with apple orchards open them to the public so consumers can pick their own apples.Crops ripen at different times of the year according to the cultivar.
Cultivar that yield their crop in the summer include 'Gala', 'Golden Supreme', 'McIntosh', 'Transparent', 'Primate', 'Sweet Bough', and 'Duchess'; fall producers include 'Fuji', 'Jonagold', 'Golden Delicious', 'Red Delicious', 'Chenango', 'Gravenstein', 'Wealthy', 'McIntosh', 'Snow', and 'Blenheim'; winter producers include 'Winesap', 'Granny Smith', 'King', 'Wagener', 'Swayzie', 'Greening', and 'Tolman Sweet'.


=== Storage ===

Commercially, apples can be stored for some months in controlled atmosphere chambers to delay ethylene-induced ripening.. Apples are commonly stored in chambers with higher concentrations of carbon dioxide and high air filtration.
This prevents ethylene concentrations from rising to higher amounts and preventing ripening from occurring too quickly.
For home storage, most cultivars of apple can be held for approximately two weeks when kept at the coolest part of the refrigerator (i.e.. below 5 °C).
Some can be stored up to a year without significant degradation.. Some varieties of apples (e.g.Mail.Ru Group, ООО (commonly referred to as Mail.Ru) is a Russian internet company.. It was started in 1998 as an e-mail service and went on to become a major corporate figure in the Russian-speaking segment of the Internet.
As of 2013 according to comScore, websites owned by Mail.ru collectively had the largest audience in Russia and captured the most screen time.Mail.Ru's sites reach approximately 86% of Russian Internet users on a monthly basis and the company is in the top 5 of largest Internet companies, based on the number of total pages viewed.. Mail.Ru controls and operates the 3 largest and most popular Russian social networking sites, VKontakte, Odnoklassniki, and Moi Mir, respectively.Mail.ru holds 100% of shares of Russia's most popular social network VKontakte and minority stakes in Qiwi, formerly OE Investments (15.04%).
It also operates two instant messaging networks (Mail.Ru Agent and ICQ), an e-mail service and Internet portal Mail.ru, as well as a number of online games.


== History ==
The business was originally owned by Port.ru, a company founded in 1998 by Eugene Goland, Michael Zaitsev and Alexey Krivenkov as spin-off from DataArt.. It received an initial investment of US$1 million from the well-known investor (and fencing champion) James Melcher.
The Mail.ru business expanded rapidly to reach the No.
1 market position in Russia by 2000.. Attempts to fund the company's expansion in 2000–2001 were thwarted by the collapse of the technology bubble and Mail.ru had to seek merger partners.
In 2001, Yuri Milner, at the time managing NetBridge (the owner of several internet brands), persuaded the entrepreneur Igor Linshits to back a merger of the Mail.ru business with NetBridge.
Igor Linshits subsequently took an active role in the development of the Mail.ru business.. In connection with the merger, Milner became Mail.ru CEO.
The company began to operate under its present name on 16 October 2001.
Before that time its brand name was owned by Port.ru.. It is headed by Dmitry Grishin.
As of 2009, its global Alexa rating is 29.In 2003 Milner resigned from Mail.ru and subsequently set up another internet venture, Digital Sky Technologies (DST).. In 2006 Igor Linshits sold his stake in Mail.ru to Tiger Fund and Milner's DST for more than $100 million.
In September 2010, DST changed its name to Mail.ru Group.. Dmitry Grishin became one of the Mail.ru Group co-founders.In October 2010, Mail.ru announced plans for an IPO via the London stock-market listing of a subsidiary – also called Mail.ru – worth more than $5bn.
The IPO will offer a stake of about 17% of the subsidiary.. The subsidiary will include about a quarter of the group's shareholding in Facebook, stakes in Russia's two biggest social networking sites and Mail.ru.
The company hired Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley and VTB Capital to run the listing.
In March 2012, Yuri Milner stepped down from the role of Chairman of Mail.ru and from the board of directors.. Dmitry Grishin was elected to the Board of Directors and appointed as Chairman of the Board while retaining his CEO position.
There were no other changes to management or to the Board.In November 2012, it was reported that Mail.Ru would discontinue using Google search services.. Full migration to the use of Mail.Ru's own engine occurred in the summer of 2013.In late 2012, Mail.ru Group's plans for buying two-letter domain My.com became known.Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT, Russian: Московский Физико-Технический институт), known informally as PhysTech (Физтех), is a Russian university, originally established in the Soviet Union.. It prepares specialists in theoretical and applied physics, applied mathematics and related disciplines.
The main MIPT campus is located in Dolgoprudny, a northern suburb of Moscow.
However the Aeromechanics Department is based in Zhukovsky, a suburb south-east of Moscow.


== History ==

In late 1945 and early 1946, a group of prominent Soviet scientists, including in particular the future Nobel Prize winner Pyotr Kapitsa, lobbied the government for the creation of a higher educational institution radically different from the type established in the Soviet system of higher education.. Applicants, carefully selected by challenging examinations and personal interviews, would be taught by and work together with, prominent scientists.
Each student would follow a personalized curriculum created to match his or her particular areas of interest and specialization.. This system would later become known as the Phystech System.
In a letter to Stalin in February 1946, Kapitsa argued for the need for such a school, which he tentatively called the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, to better maintain and develop the country's defense potential.
The institute would follow the principles outlined above and was supposed to be governed by a board of directors of the leading research institutes of the USSR Academy of Sciences.. On March 10, 1946, the government issued a decree mandating the establishment of a "College of Physics and Technology" (Russian: Высшая физико-техническая школа).

For unknown reasons, the initial plan came to a halt in the summer of 1946.
The exact circumstances are not documented, but the common assumption is that Kapitsa's refusal to participate in the Soviet atomic bomb project and his disfavor with the government and communist party that followed, cast a shadow over an independent school based largely on his ideas.. Instead, a new government decree was issued on November 25, 1946 establishing the new school as a Department of Physics and Technology within Moscow State University.
November 25 is celebrated as the date of MIPT's founding.

Kapitsa foresaw that within a traditional educational institution, the new school would encounter bureaucratic obstacles, but even though Kapitsa's original plan to create the new school as an independent organization did not come to fruition exactly as envisioned, its most important principles survived intact.. The new Department enjoyed considerable autonomy within Moscow State University.
Its facilities were in Dolgoprudny (the two buildings it occupied are still part of the present day campus), away from the MSU campus.. It had its own independent admissions and education system, different from the one centrally mandated for all other universities.
It was headed by the MSU "vice rector for special issues"—a position created specifically to shield the department from the University management.
As Kapitsa expected, the special status of the new school with its different "rules of engagement" caused much consternation and resistance within the university.. The immediate cult status that Phystech gained among talented young people, drawn by the challenge and romanticism of working on the forefront of science and technology and on projects of "government importance," many of them classified, made it an untouchable rival of every other school in the country, including MSU's own Department of Physics.
At the same time, the increasing disfavor of Kapitsa with the government (in 1950 he was essentially under house arrest) and anti-semitic repressions of the late 1940s made Phystech an easy target of intrigues and accusations of "elitism" and "rootless cosmopolitanism." In the summer of 1951, the Phystech department at MSU was shut down.A group of academicians, backed by Air Force general Ivan Fedorovich Petrov, who was a Phystech supporter influential enough to secure Stalin's personal approval on the issue, succeeded in re-establishing Phystech as an independent institute.. On September 17, 1951, a government decree re-established Phystech as the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology.Apart from Kapitsa, other prominent scientists who taught at MIPT in the years that followed included Nobel prize winners Nikolay Semyonov, Lev Landau, Alexandr Prokhorov, Vitaly Ginzburg; and Academy of Sciences members Sergey Khristianovich, Mikhail Lavrentiev, Mstislav Keldysh, Sergey Korolyov and Boris Rauschenbach.
MIPT alumni include Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov, the 2010 winners of the Nobel Prize in Physics.


== The Phystech System ==
The following is a summary of the key principles of the Phystech System, as outlined by Kapitsa in his 1946 letter arguing for the founding of MIPT:

Rigorous selection of gifted and creative young individuals.
Involving leading scientists in student education, in close contact with them in their creative environment.
An individualized approach to encourage the cultivation of students' creative drive and to avoid overloading them with unnecessary subjects and rote learning common in other schools and necessitated by mass education.
Conducting their education in an atmosphere of research and creative engineering, using the best existing laboratories in the country.In its implementation, the Phystech System combines highly competitive admissions, extensive fundamental education in mathematics, as well as theoretical and experimental physics in the undergraduate years and immersion in research work at leading research institutions of the Russian Academy of Sciences starting as early as the second or third year.


== Departments ==
The institute has eleven departments, ten of them with an average of 80 students admitted annually into each.
Radio Engineering and Cybernetics
General and Applied Physics
Aerophysics and Space Research
Molecular and Biological Physics
Physical and Quantum Electronics
Aeromechanics and Flight Engineering
Applied Mathematics and Control
Problems of Physics and Power Engineering
Innovation and High Technology
Nano-, Bio-, Information and Cognitive Technologies


== Admissions ==
Most students apply to MIPT immediately after graduating from high school at the age of 17.. Child prodigies are occasionally admitted at a younger age after skipping grades in school.
Because admission is competitive, some of those who are not admitted reapply in subsequent years.
Traditionally, applicants were required to take written and oral exams in both mathematics and physics, write an essay and have an interview with the faculty.. The interview has always been an important part of the selection process.
Sometimes an applicant with lower exam grades could be admitted and one with higher grades rejected, based solely on the interview results.
In recent years, oral exams have been eliminated, but the interview remains an important part of the selection process.
The strongest performers in national physics and mathematics competitions and IMO/IPhO participants are granted admission without exams, subject only to the interview.
In accordance with the traditions of the Soviet education system, education at MIPT is free for most students.. Further, students receive small scholarships (as of 2012, $80–$100 per month, depending on the student's performance) and rather cheap housing on campus, which allows them to study full-time.


== Education ==

It normally takes six years for a student to graduate from MIPT.
The curriculum of the first three years consists exclusively of compulsory courses, with emphasis on mathematics, physics and English.. There are no significant curriculum differences between the departments in the first three years.
A typical course load during the first and second years can be over 48 hours a week, not including homework.. Classes are taught five days a week, beginning at 9:00 am or 10:30 am and continuing until 5:00 pm, 6:30 pm, or 8:00 pm.
Most subjects include a combination of lectures and seminars (problem-solving study sessions in smaller groups) or laboratory experiments.. Lecture attendance is optional, while seminar and lab attendance affects grades.
Andre Geim, a graduate and Nobel prize winner stated "The pressure to work and to study was so intense that it was not a rare thing for people to break and leave and some of them ended up with everything from schizophrenia to depression to suicide."MIPT follows a semester system.. Each semester includes 15 weeks of instruction, two weeks of finals and then three weeks of oral and written exams on the most important subjects covered in the preceding semester.
Starting with the third year, the curriculum matches each student's area of specialization and also includes more elective courses.
Most importantly, starting with the third year, students begin work at base institutes (or "base organizations," usually simply called bases).. The bases are the core of the Phystech system.
Most of them are research institutes, usually belonging to the Russian Academy of Sciences.. At the time of enrollment, each student is assigned to a base that matches his or her interests.
Starting with the third year, a student begins to commute to their base regularly, becoming essentially a part-time employee.. During the last two years, a student spends 4–5 days a week at their base institute and only one day at MIPT.
The base organization idea is somewhat similar to an internship in that students participate in "real work." However, the similarity ends there.
All base organizations also have a curriculum for visiting students and besides their work, the students are required to take those classes and pass exams.. In other words, a base organization is an extension of MIPT, specializing in each particular student's area of interests.
While working at the base organization, a student prepares a thesis based on his or her research work and presents ("defends") it before the Qualification Committee consisting of both MIPT faculty and the base organization staff.
Defending the thesis is a requirement for graduation.


=== Base organizations ===
As of 2005, MIPT had 103 base organizations.. The following list of institutes is currently far from being complete:

Center for Arms Control, Energy and Environmental Studies (established 1991) 
Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology RAS
Gromov Flight Research Institute
Institute for Information Transmission Problems RAS
Institute for Nuclear Research RAS
Institute for Physical Problems
Institute for High Energy Physics (1963)
Institute for Problems in Mechanics RAS
Institute for Spectroscopy Russian Academy of Sciences
Institute for Theoretical and Experimental Physics
Institute of Biochemical Physics RAS
Institute of Molecular Genetics RAS
Institute of Numerical Mathematics RAS
Institute of Problems of Chemical Physics RAS (1956)
Institute of Radio Engineering and Electronics of RAS
Institute of Solid State Physics RAS
Institute of Synthetic Polymer Materials RAS
Joint Institute for Nuclear Research
Kurchatov Institute (formerly Kurchatov Institute of Atomic Energy)
Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics
Lebedev Institute of Physics RAS (FIAN)
Lebedev Institute of Precision Mechanics and Computer Engineering
N.N.
Andreyev Acoustics Institute
N.N.. Semenov Institute of Chemical Physics, RAS
Nuclear Safety Institute of RAS (IBRAE)
Shirshov Institute of Oceanology
Shubnikov Institute of Crystallography RAS
Space Research Institute RAS (1965)
Steklov Institute of Mathematics
Zhukovsky Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute
and a number of OKBs (experimental design bureaux)In addition, a number of Russian and Western companies act as base organizations of MIPT.
These include:

1C Company
ABBYY
Competentum Group or Physicon
NPMP "Concept Consulting"
Intel
IPG Photonics
Kraftway
MetaSynthesis
Paragon Software Group
S.P.. Korolev Rocket and Space Corporation Energia
SWsoft
Yandex


== Degrees and reputation ==
Before 1998, students could graduate only after completing the full six-year curriculum and defending their thesis.Leonhard Euler ( OY-lər; German: [ˈɔʏlɐ] (listen); 15 April 1707 – 18 September 1783) was a Swiss mathematician, physicist, astronomer, geographer, logician and engineer who made important and influential discoveries in many branches of mathematics, such as infinitesimal calculus and graph theory, while also making pioneering contributions to several branches such as topology and analytic number theory.. He also introduced much of the modern mathematical terminology and notation, particularly for mathematical analysis, such as the notion of a mathematical function.
He is also known for his work in mechanics, fluid dynamics, optics, astronomy and music theory.Euler was one of the most eminent mathematicians of the 18th century and is held to be one of the greatest in history.. He is also widely considered to be the most prolific, as his collected works fill 92 volumes, more than anyone else in the field.
He spent most of his adult life in Saint Petersburg, Russia, and in Berlin, then the capital of Prussia.
A statement attributed to Pierre-Simon Laplace expresses Euler's influence on mathematics: "Read Euler, read Euler, he is the master of us all."


== Early life ==
Leonhard Euler was born on 15 April 1707, in Basel, Switzerland, to Paul III Euler, a pastor of the Reformed Church, and Marguerite née Brucker, another pastor's daughter.. He had two younger sisters, Anna Maria and Maria Magdalena, and a younger brother, Johann Heinrich.
Soon after the birth of Leonhard, the Eulers moved from Basel to the town of Riehen, Switzerland, where Leonhard spent most of his childhood.. Paul was a friend of the Bernoulli family; Johann Bernoulli, then regarded as Europe's foremost mathematician, would eventually be the most important influence on young Leonhard.
Euler's formal education started in Basel, where he was sent to live with his maternal grandmother.
In 1720, at age thirteen, he enrolled at the University of Basel.. In 1723, he received a Master of Philosophy with a dissertation that compared the philosophies of Descartes and Newton.
During that time, he was receiving Saturday afternoon lessons from Johann Bernoulli, who quickly discovered his new pupil's incredible talent for mathematics.. At that time Euler's main studies included theology, Greek and Hebrew at his father's urging to become a pastor, but Bernoulli convinced his father that Leonhard was destined to become a great mathematician.
In 1726, Euler completed a dissertation on the propagation of sound with the title De Sono.
At that time, he was unsuccessfully attempting to obtain a position at the University of Basel.. In 1727, he first entered the Paris Academy Prize Problem competition; the problem that year was to find the best way to place the masts on a ship.
Pierre Bouguer, who became known as "the father of naval architecture", won and Euler took second place.. Euler later won this annual prize twelve times.


== Career ==


=== Saint Petersburg ===
Around this time Johann Bernoulli's two sons, Daniel and Nicolaus, were working at the Imperial Russian Academy of Sciences in Saint Petersburg.
On 31 July 1726, Nicolaus died of appendicitis after spending less than a year in Russia.. When Daniel assumed his brother's position in the mathematics/physics division, he recommended that the post in physiology that he had vacated be filled by his friend Euler.
In November 1726 Euler eagerly accepted the offer, but delayed making the trip to Saint Petersburg while he unsuccessfully applied for a physics professorship at the University of Basel.

Euler arrived in Saint Petersburg on 17 May 1727.. He was promoted from his junior post in the medical department of the academy to a position in the mathematics department.
He lodged with Daniel Bernoulli with whom he often worked in close collaboration.. Euler mastered Russian and settled into life in Saint Petersburg.
He also took on an additional job as a medic in the Russian Navy.The Academy at Saint Petersburg, established by Peter the Great, was intended to improve education in Russia and to close the scientific gap with Western Europe.. As a result, it was made especially attractive to foreign scholars like Euler.
The academy possessed ample financial resources and a comprehensive library drawn from the private libraries of Peter himself and of the nobility.. Very few students were enrolled in the academy to lessen the faculty's teaching burden.
The academy emphasized research and offered to its faculty both the time and the freedom to pursue scientific questions.The Academy's benefactress, Catherine I, who had continued the progressive policies of her late husband, died on the day of Euler's arrival.. The Russian nobility then gained power upon the ascension of the twelve-year-old Peter II.
The nobility, suspicious of the academy's foreign scientists, cut funding and caused other difficulties for Euler and his colleagues.
Conditions improved slightly after the death of Peter II, and Euler swiftly rose through the ranks in the academy and was made a professor of physics in 1731.. Two years later, Daniel Bernoulli, who was fed up with the censorship and hostility he faced at Saint Petersburg, left for Basel.
Euler succeeded him as the head of the mathematics department.On 7 January 1734, he married Katharina Gsell (1707–1773), a daughter of Georg Gsell, a painter from the Academy Gymnasium.. The young couple bought a house by the Neva River.
Of their thirteen children, only five survived childhood.


=== Berlin ===

Concerned about the continuing turmoil in Russia, Euler left St.. Petersburg on 19 June 1741 to take up a post at the Berlin Academy, which he had been offered by Frederick the Great of Prussia.
He lived for 25 years in Berlin, where he wrote over 380 articles.. In Berlin, he published the two works for which he would become most renowned: the Introductio in analysin infinitorum, a text on functions published in 1748, and the Institutiones calculi differentialis, published in 1755 on differential calculus.
In 1755, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.
In addition, Euler was asked to tutor Friederike Charlotte of Brandenburg-Schwedt, the Princess of Anhalt-Dessau and Frederick's niece.. Euler wrote over 200 letters to her in the early 1760s, which were later compiled into a best-selling volume entitled Letters of Euler on different Subjects in Natural Philosophy Addressed to a German Princess.
This work contained Euler's exposition on various subjects pertaining to physics and mathematics, as well as offering valuable insights into Euler's personality and religious beliefs.. This book became more widely read than any of his mathematical works and was published across Europe and in the United States.
The popularity of the "Letters" testifies to Euler's ability to communicate scientific matters effectively to a lay audience, a rare ability for a dedicated research scientist.Despite Euler's immense contribution to the Academy's prestige, he eventually incurred the ire of Frederick and ended up having to leave Berlin.. The Prussian king had a large circle of intellectuals in his court, and he found the mathematician unsophisticated and ill-informed on matters beyond numbers and figures.
Euler was a simple, devoutly religious man who never questioned the existing social order or conventional beliefs, in many ways the polar opposite of Voltaire, who enjoyed a high place of prestige at Frederick's court.. Euler was not a skilled debater and often made it a point to argue subjects that he knew little about, making him the frequent target of Voltaire's wit.
Frederick also expressed disappointment with Euler's practical engineering abilities:

I wanted to have a water jet in my garden: Euler calculated the force of the wheels necessary to raise the water to a reservoir, from where it should fall back through channels, finally spurting out in Sanssouci.. My mill was carried out geometrically and could not raise a mouthful of water closer than fifty paces to the reservoir.
Vanity of vanities!. Vanity of geometry!


== Personal life ==


=== Eyesight deterioration ===
Euler's eyesight worsened throughout his mathematical career.
In 1738, three years after nearly expiring from fever, he became almost blind in his right eye, but Euler rather blamed the painstaking work on cartography he performed for the St.. Petersburg Academy for his condition.
Euler's vision in that eye worsened throughout his stay in Germany, to the extent that Frederick referred to him as "Cyclops".. Euler remarked on his loss of vision, "Now I will have fewer distractions." He later developed a cataract in his left eye, which was discovered in 1766.
Just a few weeks after its discovery, a failed surgical restoration rendered him almost totally blind.. He was 59 years old then.
However, his condition appeared to have little effect on his productivity, as he compensated for it with his mental calculation skills and exceptional memory.. For example, Euler could repeat the Aeneid of Virgil from beginning to end without hesitation, and for every page in the edition he could indicate which line was the first and which the last.
With the aid of his scribes, Euler's productivity on many areas of study actually increased.. He produced, on average, one mathematical paper every week in the year 1775.
The Eulers bore a double name, Euler-Schölpi, the latter of which derives from schelb and schief, signifying squint-eyed, cross-eyed, or crooked.. This suggests that the Eulers had a susceptibility to eye problems.


=== Return to Russia and death ===
In 1760, with the Seven Years' War raging, Euler's farm in Charlottenburg was sacked by advancing Russian troops.
Upon learning of this event, General Ivan Petrovich Saltykov paid compensation for the damage caused to Euler's estate, with Empress Elizabeth of Russia later adding a further payment of 4000 roubles—an exorbitant amount at the time.. The political situation in Russia stabilized after Catherine the Great's accession to the throne, so in 1766 Euler accepted an invitation to return to the St.
Petersburg Academy.. His conditions were quite exorbitant—a 3000 ruble annual salary, a pension for his wife, and the promise of high-ranking appointments for his sons.
All of these requests were granted.. He spent the rest of his life in Russia.
However, his second stay in the country was marred by tragedy.. A fire in St.
Petersburg in 1771 cost him his home, and almost his life.. In 1773, he lost his wife Katharina after 40 years of marriage.
Three years after his wife's death, Euler married her half-sister, Salome Abigail Gsell (1723–1794).
This marriage lasted until his death.. In 1782 he was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.In St.
Petersburg on 18 September 1783, after a lunch with his family, Euler was discussing the newly discovered planet Uranus and its orbit with a fellow academician Anders Johan Lexell, when he collapsed from a brain hemorrhage.. He died a few hours later.
Jacob von Staehlin-Storcksburg wrote a short obituary for the Russian Academy of Sciences and Russian mathematician Nicolas Fuss, one of Euler's disciples, wrote a more detailed eulogy, which he delivered at a memorial meeting.. In his eulogy for the French Academy, French mathematician and philosopher Marquis de Condorcet, wrote:

il cessa de calculer et de vivre— ...
he ceased to calculate and to live.

Euler was buried next to Katharina at the Smolensk Lutheran Cemetery on Goloday Island.. In 1785, the Russian Academy of Sciences put a marble bust of Leonhard Euler on a pedestal next to the Director's seat and, in 1837, placed a headstone on Euler's grave.
To commemorate the 250th anniversary of Euler's birth, the headstone was moved in 1956, together with his remains, to the 18th-century necropolis at the Alexander Nevsky Monastery.


== Contributions to mathematics and physics ==
Euler worked in almost all areas of mathematics, such as geometry, infinitesimal calculus, trigonometry, algebra, and number theory, as well as continuum physics, lunar theory and other areas of physics.. He is a seminal figure in the history of mathematics; if printed, his works, many of which are of fundamental interest, would occupy between 60 and 80 quarto volumes.
Euler's name is associated with a large number of topics.
Euler is the only mathematician to have two numbers named after him: the important Euler's number in calculus, e, approximately equal to 2.71828, and the Euler–Mascheroni constant γ (gamma) sometimes referred to as just "Euler's constant", approximately equal to 0.57721.. It is not known whether γ is rational or irrational.


=== Mathematical notation ===
Euler introduced and popularized several notational conventions through his numerous and widely circulated textbooks.
Most notably, he introduced the concept of a function and was the first to write f(x) to denote the function f applied to the argument x.. He also introduced the modern notation for the trigonometric functions, the letter e for the base of the natural logarithm (now also known as Euler's number), the Greek letter Σ for summations and the letter i to denote the imaginary unit.
The use of the Greek letter π to denote the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter was also popularized by Euler, although it originated with Welsh mathematician William Jones.


=== Analysis ===
The development of infinitesimal calculus was at the forefront of 18th-century mathematical research, and the Bernoullis—family friends of Euler—were responsible for much of the early progress in the field.. Thanks to their influence, studying calculus became the major focus of Euler's work.
While some of Euler's proofs are not acceptable by modern standards of mathematical rigour (in particular his reliance on the principle of the generality of algebra), his ideas led to many great advances.
Euler is well known in analysis for his frequent use and development of power series, the expression of functions as sums of infinitely many terms, such as

  
    
      
        
          e
          
            x
          
        
        =
        
          ∑
          
            n
            =
            0
          
          
            ∞
          
        
        
          
            
              x
              
                n
              
            
            
              n
              !
            
          
        
        =
        
          lim
          
            n
            →
            ∞
          
        
        
          (
          
            
              
                1
                
                  0
                  !
                
              
            
            +
            
              
                x
                
                  1
                  !
                
              
            
            +
            
              
                
                  x
                  
                    2
                  
                
                
                  2
                  !
                
              
            
            +
            ⋯
            +
            
              
                
                  x
                  
                    n
                  
                
                
                  n
                  !
                
              
            
          
          )
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle e^{x}=\sum _{n=0}^{\infty }{x^{n} \over n!}=\lim _{n\to \infty }\left({\frac {1}{0!}}+{\frac {x}{1!}}+{\frac {x^{2}}{2!}}+\cdots +{\frac {x^{n}}{n!}}\right).}
  Euler directly proved the power series expansions for e and the inverse tangent function.. (Indirect proof via the inverse power series technique was given by Newton and Leibniz between 1670 and 1680.) His daring use of power series enabled him to solve the famous Basel problem in 1735 (he provided a more elaborate argument in 1741):

  
    
      
        
          ∑
          
            n
            =
            1
          
          
            ∞
          
        
        
          
            1
            
              n
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          lim
          
            n
            →
            ∞
          
        
        
          (
          
            
              
                1
                
                  1
                  
                    2
                  
                
              
            
            +
            
              
                1
                
                  2
                  
                    2
                  
                
              
            
            +
            
              
                1
                
                  3
                  
                    2
                  
                
              
            
            +
            ⋯
            +
            
              
                1
                
                  n
                  
                    2
                  
                
              
            
          
          )
        
        =
        
          
            
              π
              
                2
              
            
            6
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sum _{n=1}^{\infty }{1 \over n^{2}}=\lim _{n\to \infty }\left({\frac {1}{1^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{2^{2}}}+{\frac {1}{3^{2}}}+\cdots +{\frac {1}{n^{2}}}\right)={\frac {\pi ^{2}}{6}}.}
  
Euler introduced the use of the exponential function and logarithms in analytic proofs.
He discovered ways to express various logarithmic functions using power series, and he successfully defined logarithms for negative and complex numbers, thus greatly expanding the scope of mathematical applications of logarithms.. He also defined the exponential function for complex numbers, and discovered its relation to the trigonometric functions.
For any real number φ (taken to be radians), Euler's formula states that the complex exponential function satisfies

  
    
      
        
          e
          
            i
            φ
          
        
        =
        cos
        ⁡
        φ
        +
        i
        sin
        ⁡
        φ
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle e^{i\varphi }=\cos \varphi +i\sin \varphi .}
  A special case of the above formula is known as Euler's identity,

  
    
      
        
          e
          
            i
            π
          
        
        +
        1
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle e^{i\pi }+1=0}
  called "the most remarkable formula in mathematics" by Richard P.. Feynman, for its single uses of the notions of addition, multiplication, exponentiation, and equality, and the single uses of the important constants 0, 1, e, i and π.
In 1988, readers of the Mathematical Intelligencer voted it "the Most Beautiful Mathematical Formula Ever".. In total, Euler was responsible for three of the top five formulae in that poll.De Moivre's formula is a direct consequence of Euler's formula.
Euler elaborated the theory of higher transcendental functions by introducing the gamma function and introduced a new method for solving quartic equations.
He found a way to calculate integrals with complex limits, foreshadowing the development of modern complex analysis.. He invented the calculus of variations including its best-known result, the Euler–Lagrange equation.
Euler pioneered the use of analytic methods to solve number theory problems.
In doing so, he united two disparate branches of mathematics and introduced a new field of study, analytic number theory.. In breaking ground for this new field, Euler created the theory of hypergeometric series, q-series, hyperbolic trigonometric functions and the analytic theory of continued fractions.
For example, he proved the infinitude of primes using the divergence of the harmonic series, and he used analytic methods to gain some understanding of the way prime numbers are distributed.. Euler's work in this area led to the development of the prime number theorem.


=== Number theory ===
Euler's interest in number theory can be traced to the influence of Christian Goldbach, his friend in the St.
Petersburg Academy.. A lot of Euler's early work on number theory was based on the works of Pierre de Fermat.
Euler developed some of Fermat's ideas and disproved some of his conjectures.
Euler linked the nature of prime distribution with ideas in analysis.. He proved that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes diverges.
In doing so, he discovered the connection between the Riemann zeta function and the prime numbers; this is known as the Euler product formula for the Riemann zeta function.
Euler proved Newton's identities, Fermat's little theorem, Fermat's theorem on sums of two squares, and he made distinct contributions to Lagrange's four-square theorem.. He also invented the totient function φ(n), the number of positive integers less than or equal to the integer n that are coprime to n.
Using properties of this function, he generalized Fermat's little theorem to what is now known as Euler's theorem.. He contributed significantly to the theory of perfect numbers, which had fascinated mathematicians since Euclid.
He proved that the relationship shown between even perfect numbers and Mersenne primes earlier proved by Euclid was one-to-one, a result otherwise known as the Euclid–Euler theorem.. Euler also conjectured the law of quadratic reciprocity.
The concept is regarded as a fundamental theorem of number theory, and his ideas paved the way for the work of Carl Friedrich Gauss.
By 1772 Euler had proved that 231 − 1 = 2,147,483,647 is a Mersenne prime.. It may have remained the largest known prime until 1867.


=== Graph theory ===

In 1735, Euler presented a solution to the problem known as the Seven Bridges of Königsberg.
The city of Königsberg, Prussia was set on the Pregel River, and included two large islands that were connected to each other and the mainland by seven bridges.. The problem is to decide whether it is possible to follow a path that crosses each bridge exactly once and returns to the starting point.
It is not possible: there is no Eulerian circuit.. This solution is considered to be the first theorem of graph theory, specifically of planar graph theory.Euler also discovered the formula 
  
    
      
        V
        −
        E
        +
        F
        =
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle V-E+F=2}
   relating the number of vertices, edges and faces of a convex polyhedron, and hence of a planar graph.
The constant in this formula is now known as the Euler characteristic for the graph (or other mathematical object), and is related to the genus of the object.. The study and generalization of this formula, specifically by Cauchy and L'Huilier, is at the origin of topology.


=== Applied mathematics ===
Some of Euler's greatest successes were in solving real-world problems analytically, and in describing numerous applications of the Bernoulli numbers, Fourier series, Euler numbers, the constants e and π, continued fractions and integrals.
He integrated Leibniz's differential calculus with Newton's Method of Fluxions, and developed tools that made it easier to apply calculus to physical problems.. He made great strides in improving the numerical approximation of integrals, inventing what are now known as the Euler approximations.
The most notable of these approximations are Euler's method and the Euler–Maclaurin formula.. He also facilitated the use of differential equations, in particular introducing the Euler–Mascheroni constant:

  
    
      
        γ
        =
        
          lim
          
            n
            →
            ∞
          
        
        
          (
          
            1
            +
            
              
                1
                2
              
            
            +
            
              
                1
                3
              
            
            +
            
              
                1
                4
              
            
            +
            ⋯
            +
            
              
                1
                n
              
            
            −
            ln
            ⁡
            (
            n
            )
          
          )
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma =\lim _{n\rightarrow \infty }\left(1+{\frac {1}{2}}+{\frac {1}{3}}+{\frac {1}{4}}+\cdots +{\frac {1}{n}}-\ln(n)\right).}
  One of Euler's more unusual interests was the application of mathematical ideas in music.
In 1739 he wrote the Tentamen novae theoriae musicae, hoping to eventually incorporate musical theory as part of mathematics.. This part of his work, however, did not receive wide attention and was once described as too mathematical for musicians and too musical for mathematicians.In 1911, almost 130 years after Euler's death, Alfred J.
Lotka used Euler's work to derive the Euler–Lotka equation for calculating rates of population growth for age-structured populations, a fundamental method that is commonly used in population biology and ecology.. 


=== Physics and astronomy ===
Euler helped develop the Euler–Bernoulli beam equation, which became a cornerstone of engineering.
Besides successfully applying his analytic tools to problems in classical mechanics, Euler applied these techniques to celestial problems.. His work in astronomy was recognized by multiple Paris Academy Prizes over the course of his career.
His accomplishments include determining with great accuracy the orbits of comets and other celestial bodies, understanding the nature of comets, and calculating the parallax of the Sun.. His calculations contributed to the development of accurate longitude tables.Euler made important contributions in optics.
He disagreed with Newton's corpuscular theory of light in the Opticks, which was then the prevailing theory.. His 1740s papers on optics helped ensure that the wave theory of light proposed by Christiaan Huygens would become the dominant mode of thought, at least until the development of the quantum theory of light.In 1757 he published an important set of equations for inviscid flow, that are now known as the Euler equations.
In differential form, the equations are:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
              
                
                  
                    
                      ∂
                      ρ
                    
                    
                      ∂
                      t
                    
                  
                
                +
                ∇
                ⋅
                (
                ρ
                
                  u
                
                )
                =
                0
              
            
            
              
              
                
                  
                    
                      ∂
                      (
                      ρ
                      
                        
                          u
                        
                      
                      )
                    
                    
                      ∂
                      t
                    
                  
                
                +
                ∇
                ⋅
                (
                
                  u
                
                ⊗
                (
                ρ
                
                  u
                
                )
                )
                +
                ∇
                p
                =
                
                  0
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                  
                    
                      ∂
                      E
                    
                    
                      ∂
                      t
                    
                  
                
                +
                ∇
                ⋅
                (
                
                  u
                
                (
                E
                +
                p
                )
                )
                =
                0
                ,
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}&{\partial \rho  \over \partial t}+\nabla \cdot (\rho \mathbf {u} )=0\\[1.2ex]&{\partial (\rho {\mathbf {u} }) \over \partial t}+\nabla \cdot (\mathbf {u} \otimes (\rho \mathbf {u} ))+\nabla p=\mathbf {0} \\[1.2ex]&{\partial E \over \partial t}+\nabla \cdot (\mathbf {u} (E+p))=0,\end{aligned}}}
  where

ρ is the fluid mass density,
u is the fluid velocity vector, with components u, v, and w,
E = ρ e + ½ ρ (u2 + v2 + w2) is the total energy per unit volume, with e being the internal energy per unit mass for the fluid,
p is the pressure,
⊗ denotes the tensor product, and
0 being the zero vector.Euler is well known in structural engineering for his formula giving the critical buckling load of an ideal strut, which depends only on its length and flexural stiffness:

  
    
      
        F
        =
        
          
            
              
                π
                
                  2
                
              
              E
              I
            
            
              (
              K
              L
              
                )
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle F={\frac {\pi ^{2}EI}{(KL)^{2}}}}
  where

F = maximum or critical force (vertical load on column),
E = modulus of elasticity,
I = area moment of inertia,
L = unsupported length of column,
K = column effective length factor, whose value depends on the conditions of end support of the column, as follows.For both ends pinned (hinged, free to rotate), K = 1.0.
For both ends fixed, K = 0.50.
For one end fixed and the other end pinned, K = 0.699…
For one end fixed and the other end free to move laterally, K = 2.0.K L is the effective length of the column.


=== Logic ===
Euler is credited with using closed curves to illustrate syllogistic reasoning (1768).. These diagrams have become known as Euler diagrams.

An Euler diagram is a diagrammatic means of representing sets and their relationships.The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, commonly known as the United Kingdom (UK or U.K.) or Britain, is a sovereign country located off the north­western coast of the European mainland.. The United Kingdom includes the island of Great Britain, the north­eastern part of the island of Ireland, and many smaller islands.
Northern Ireland shares  a land border with the Republic of Ireland.. Otherwise, the United Kingdom is surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean, with the North Sea to the east, the English Channel to the south and the Celtic Sea to the southwest, giving it the 12th-longest coastline in the world.
The Irish Sea separates Great Britain and Ireland.. The total area of the United Kingdom is 94,000 square miles (240,000 km2).
The United Kingdom is a unitary parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy.
The monarch is Queen Elizabeth II, who has reigned since 1952, making her the world's longest-serving current head of state.. The United Kingdom's capital is London, a global city and financial centre with an urban area population of 10.3 million.The United Kingdom consists of four countries: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Their capitals are London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast, respectively.. Apart from England, the countries have their own devolved governments, each with varying powers.
Other major cities include Birmingham, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, and Manchester.
The nearby Isle of Man, Bailiwick of Guernsey and Bailiwick of Jersey are not part of the UK, being Crown dependencies with the British Government responsible for defence and international representation.. The medieval conquest and subsequent annexation of Wales by the Kingdom of England, followed by the union between England and Scotland in 1707 to form the Kingdom of Great Britain, and the union in 1801 of Great Britain with the Kingdom of Ireland created the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
Five-sixths of Ireland seceded from the UK in 1922, leaving the present formulation of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.. The UK's name was adopted in 1927 to reflect the change.
There are fourteen British Overseas Territories, the remnants of the British Empire which, at its height in the 1920s, encompassed almost a quarter of the world's landmass and was the largest empire in history.. British influence can be observed in the language, culture and political systems of many of its former colonies.
The United Kingdom has the world's sixth-largest economy by nominal gross domestic product (GDP), and the ninth-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP).
It has a high-income economy and a very high human development index rating, ranking 14th in the world.. It was the world's first industrialised country and the world's foremost power during the 19th and early 20th centuries.
The UK remains a great power, with considerable economic, cultural, military, scientific and political influence internationally.. It is a recognised nuclear weapons state and is sixth in military expenditure in the world.
It has been a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council since its first session in 1946.
The United Kingdom is a leading member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the Council of Europe, the G7, the G20, NATO, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Interpol and the World Trade Organization (WTO).. It was a member of the European Union (EU) and its predecessor, the European Economic Community (EEC), for 47 years, between 1 January 1973 and withdrawal on 31 January 2020.


== Etymology and terminology ==

The 1707 Acts of Union declared that the kingdoms of England and Scotland were "United into One Kingdom by the Name of Great Britain".
The term "United Kingdom" has occasionally been used as a description for the former kingdom of Great Britain, although its official name from 1707 to 1800 was simply "Great Britain".. The Acts of Union 1800 united the kingdom of Great Britain and the kingdom of Ireland in 1801, forming the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.
Following the partition of Ireland and the independence of the Irish Free State in 1922, which left Northern Ireland as the only part of the island of Ireland within the United Kingdom, the name was changed to the "United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland".Although the United Kingdom is a sovereign country, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland are also widely referred to as countries.. The UK Prime Minister's website has used the phrase "countries within a country" to describe the United Kingdom.
Some statistical summaries, such as those for the twelve NUTS 1 regions of the United Kingdom refer to Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland as "regions".. Northern Ireland is also referred to as a "province".
With regard to Northern Ireland, the descriptive name used "can be controversial, with the choice often revealing one's political preferences".The term "Great Britain" conventionally refers to the island of Great Britain, or politically to England, Scotland and Wales in combination.. It is sometimes used as a loose synonym for the United Kingdom as a whole.The term "Britain" is used both as a synonym for Great Britain, and as a synonym for the United Kingdom.
Usage is mixed: the UK Government prefers to use the term "UK" rather than "Britain" or "British" on its own website (except when referring to embassies), while acknowledging that both terms refer to the United Kingdom and that elsewhere '"British government" is used at least as frequently as "United Kingdom government".. The UK Permanent Committee on Geographical Names recognises "United Kingdom" and "UK or U.K." as shortened and abbreviated geopolitical terms for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in its toponymic guidelines; it does not list "Britain" but notes 'it is only the one specific nominal term "Great Britain" which invariably excludes Northern Ireland.' The BBC historically preferred to use "Britain" as shorthand only for Great Britain, though the present style guide does not take a position except that "Great Britain" excludes Northern Ireland.The adjective "British" is commonly used to refer to matters relating to the United Kingdom and is used in law to refer to United Kingdom citizenship and matters to do with nationality.
People of the United Kingdom use a number of different terms to describe their national identity and may identify themselves as being British, English, Scottish, Welsh, Northern Irish, or Irish; or as having a combination of different national identities.. The official designation for a citizen of the United Kingdom is "British citizen".


== History ==


=== To the Treaty of Union of 1706 ===

Settlement by anatomically modern humans of what was to become the United Kingdom occurred in waves beginning by about 30,000 years ago.
By the end of the region's prehistoric period, the population is thought to have belonged, in the main, to a culture termed Insular Celtic, comprising Brittonic Britain and Gaelic Ireland.. The Roman conquest, beginning in 43 AD, and the 400-year rule of southern Britain, was followed by an invasion by Germanic Anglo-Saxon settlers, reducing the Brittonic area mainly to what was to become Wales, Cornwall and, until the latter stages of the Anglo-Saxon settlement, the Hen Ogledd (northern England and parts of southern Scotland).
Most of the region settled by the Anglo-Saxons became unified as the Kingdom of England in the 10th century.. Meanwhile, Gaelic-speakers in north-west Britain (with connections to the north-east of Ireland and traditionally supposed to have migrated from there in the 5th century) united with the Picts to create the Kingdom of Scotland in the 9th century.

In 1066, the Normans and their Breton allies invaded England from northern France and after its conquest, seized large parts of Wales, conquered much of Ireland and were invited to settle in Scotland, bringing to each country feudalism on the Northern French model and Norman-French culture.
The Anglo-Norman ruling class greatly influenced, but eventually assimilated with, each of the local cultures.. Subsequent medieval English kings completed the conquest of Wales and made unsuccessful attempts to annex Scotland.
Asserting its independence in the 1320 Declaration of Arbroath, Scotland maintained its independence thereafter, albeit in near-constant conflict with England.
The English monarchs, through inheritance of substantial territories in France and claims to the French crown, were also heavily involved in conflicts in France, most notably the Hundred Years War, while the Kings of Scots were in an alliance with the French during this period.Early modern Britain saw religious conflict resulting from the Reformation and the introduction of Protestant state churches in each country.. Wales was fully incorporated into the Kingdom of England, and Ireland was constituted as a kingdom in personal union with the English crown.
In what was to become Northern Ireland, the lands of the independent Catholic Gaelic nobility were confiscated and given to Protestant settlers from England and Scotland.In 1603, the kingdoms of England, Scotland and Ireland were united in a personal union when James VI, King of Scots, inherited the crowns of England and Ireland and moved his court from Edinburgh to London; each country nevertheless remained a separate political entity and retained its separate political, legal, and religious institutions.In the mid-17th century, all three kingdoms were involved in a series of connected wars (including the English Civil War) which led to the temporary overthrow of the monarchy, with the execution of King Charles I, and the establishment of the short-lived unitary republic of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland.. During the 17th and 18th centuries, British sailors were involved in acts of piracy (privateering), attacking and stealing from ships off the coast of Europe and the Caribbean.

Although the monarchy was restored, the Interregnum (along with the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and the subsequent Bill of Rights 1689, and the Claim of Right Act 1689) ensured that, unlike much of the rest of Europe, royal absolutism would not prevail, and a professed Catholic could never accede to the throne.
The British constitution would develop on the basis of constitutional monarchy and the parliamentary system.. With the founding of the Royal Society in 1660, science was greatly encouraged.
During this period, particularly in England, the development of naval power and the interest in voyages of discovery led to the acquisition and settlement of overseas colonies, particularly in North America and the Caribbean.Though previous attempts at uniting the two kingdoms within Great Britain in 1606, 1667, and 1689 had proved unsuccessful, the attempt initiated in 1705 led to the Treaty of Union of 1706 being agreed and ratified by both parliaments.


=== Kingdom of Great Britain ===

On 1 May 1707, the Kingdom of Great Britain was formed, the result of Acts of Union being passed by the parliaments of England and Scotland to ratify the 1706 Treaty of Union and so unite the two kingdoms.In the 18th century, cabinet government developed under Robert Walpole, in practice the first prime minister (1721–1742).. A series of Jacobite Uprisings sought to remove the Protestant House of Hanover from the British throne and restore the Catholic House of Stuart.
The Jacobites were finally defeated at the Battle of Culloden in 1746, after which the Scottish Highlanders were brutally suppressed.. The British colonies in North America that broke away from Britain in the American War of Independence became the United States of America, recognised by Britain in 1783.
British imperial ambition turned towards Asia, particularly to India.During the 18th century, Britain was involved in the Atlantic slave trade.. British ships transported an estimated two million slaves from Africa to the West Indies.
Parliament banned the trade in 1807, banned slavery in the British Empire in 1833, and Britain took a leading role in the movement to abolish slavery worldwide through the blockade of Africa and pressing other nations to end their trade with a series of treaties.. The world's oldest international human rights organisation, Anti-Slavery International, was formed in London in 1839.


=== From the union with Ireland to the end of the First World War ===

The term "United Kingdom" became official in 1801 when the parliaments of Great Britain and Ireland each passed an Act of Union, uniting the two kingdoms and creating the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.In the early 19th century, the Industrial Revolution transformed the country; political power began shifting away from the old Tory and Whig landowning classes towards the new industrialists.
An alliance of merchants and industrialists with the Whigs would lead to a new party, the Liberals, with an ideology of free trade and laissez-faire.. In 1832 Parliament passed the Great Reform Act, which began the transfer of political power from the aristocracy to the middle classes.
In the countryside, enclosure of the land was driving small farmers out.. Towns and cities began to swell with a new urban working class.
Few ordinary workers had the vote, and they created their own organisations in the form of trade unions.After the defeat of France at the end of the Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars (1792–1815), the United Kingdom emerged as the principal naval and imperial power of the 19th century (with London the largest city in the world from about 1830).. Unchallenged at sea, British dominance was later described as Pax Britannica ("British Peace"), a period of relative peace among the Great Powers (1815–1914) during which the British Empire became the global hegemon and adopted the role of global policeman.
By the time of the Great Exhibition of 1851, Britain was described as the "workshop of the world".. The British Empire was expanded to include India, large parts of Africa and many other territories throughout the world.
Alongside the formal control it exerted over its own colonies, British dominance of much of world trade meant that it effectively controlled the economies of many regions, such as Asia and Latin America.. Domestically, political attitudes favoured free trade and laissez-faire policies and a gradual widening of the voting franchise.
During the century, the population increased at a dramatic rate, accompanied by rapid urbanisation, causing significant social and economic stresses.. To seek new markets and sources of raw materials, the Conservative Party under Disraeli launched a period of imperialist expansion in Egypt, South Africa, and elsewhere.
Canada, Australia, and New Zealand became self-governing dominions.. After the turn of the century, Britain's industrial dominance was challenged by Germany and the United States.
Social reform and home rule for Ireland were important domestic issues after 1900.. The Labour Party emerged from an alliance of trade unions and small socialist groups in 1900, and suffragettes campaigned from before 1914 for women's right to vote.Britain fought alongside France, Russia and (after 1917) the United States, against Germany and its allies in the First World War (1914–1918).
British armed forces were engaged across much of the British Empire and in several regions of Europe, particularly on the Western front.. The high fatalities of trench warfare caused the loss of much of a generation of men, with lasting social effects in the nation and a great disruption in the social order.
After the war, Britain received the League of Nations mandate over a number of former German and Ottoman colonies.
The British Empire reached its greatest extent, covering a fifth of the world's land surface and a quarter of its population.. Britain had suffered 2.5 million casualties and finished the war with a huge national debt.


=== Interwar years and the Second World War ===

The rise of Irish nationalism, and disputes within Ireland over the terms of Irish Home Rule, led eventually to the partition of the island in 1921.
The Irish Free State became independent, initially with Dominion status in 1922, and unambiguously independent in 1931.. Northern Ireland remained part of the United Kingdom.
The 1928 Act widened suffrage by giving women electoral equality with men.. A wave of strikes in the mid-1920s culminated in the General Strike of 1926.
Britain had still not recovered from the effects of the war when the Great Depression (1929–1932) occurred.. This led to considerable unemployment and hardship in the old industrial areas, as well as political and social unrest in the 1930s, with rising membership in communist and socialist parties.
A coalition government was formed in 1931.Nonetheless, "Britain was a very wealthy country, formidable in arms, ruthless in pursuit of its interests and sitting at the heart of a global production system." After Nazi Germany invaded Poland, Britain entered the Second World War by declaring war on Germany in 1939.. Winston Churchill became prime minister and head of a coalition government in 1940.
Despite the defeat of its European allies in the first year of the war, Britain and its Empire continued the fight alone against Germany.. Churchill engaged industry, scientists and engineers to advise and support the government and the military in the prosecution of the war effort.
He formed a Special Relationship with the United States, and won their agreement to a Europe first grand strategy for the Allies.. In 1940, the Royal Air Force defeated the German Luftwaffe in a struggle for control of the skies in the Battle of Britain.
Urban areas suffered heavy bombing during the Blitz.. There were eventual hard-fought victories in the Battle of the Atlantic, the North Africa campaign and the Italian campaign.
British forces played an important role in the Normandy landings of 1944 and the liberation of Europe, achieved with its allies the United States, the Soviet Union and other Allied countries.. The British Army led the Burma campaign against Japan and the British Pacific Fleet fought Japan at sea.
British scientists contributed to the Manhattan Project which led to the surrender of Japan.


=== Postwar 20th century ===

After the end of the Second World War in 1945, the UK was one of the Big Four powers (along with the U.S., the Soviet Union, and China) who met to plan the post-war world; it was an original signatory to the Declaration of the United Nations.. The UK became one of the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and worked closely with the United States to establish the IMF, World Bank and NATO.
The war left the UK severely weakened, but it was spared the total war that devastated eastern Europe, and it depended financially on the Marshall Plan.. In the immediate post-war years, the Labour government initiated a radical programme of reforms, which had a significant effect on British society in the following decades.
Major industries and public utilities were nationalised, a welfare state was established, and a comprehensive, publicly funded healthcare system, the National Health Service, was created.. The rise of nationalism in the colonies coincided with Britain's now much-diminished economic position, so that a policy of decolonisation was unavoidable.
Independence was granted to India and Pakistan in 1947.. Over the next three decades, most colonies of the British Empire gained their independence, with all those that sought independence supported by the U.K, during both the transition period and afterwards.
Many became members of the Commonwealth of Nations.The UK was the third country to develop a nuclear weapons arsenal (with its first atomic bomb test in 1952), but the new post-war limits of Britain's international role were illustrated by the Suez Crisis of 1956.. The international spread of the English language ensured the continuing international influence of its literature and culture.
As a result of a shortage of workers in the 1950s, the government encouraged immigration from Commonwealth countries.. In the following decades, the UK became a more multi-ethnic society than before.
Despite rising living standards in the late 1950s and 1960s, the UK's economic performance was less successful than many of its main competitors such as France, West Germany and Japan.

In the decade-long process of European integration, the UK was a founding member of the alliance called the Western European Union, established with the London and Paris Conferences in 1954.. In 1960 the UK was one of the seven founding members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), but in 1973 it left to join the European Communities (EC).
When the EC became the European Union (EU) in 1992, the UK was one of the 12 founding members.. The Treaty of Lisbon was signed in 2007, which forms the constitutional basis of the European Union since then.
From the late 1960s, Northern Ireland suffered communal and paramilitary violence (sometimes affecting other parts of the UK) conventionally known as the Troubles.
It is usually considered to have ended with the Belfast "Good Friday" Agreement of 1998.Following a period of widespread economic slowdown and industrial strife in the 1970s, the Conservative government of the 1980s under Margaret Thatcher initiated a radical policy of monetarism, deregulation, particularly of the financial sector (for example, Big Bang in 1986) and labour markets, the sale of state-owned companies (privatisation), and the withdrawal of subsidies to others.. From 1984, the economy was helped by the inflow of substantial North Sea oil revenues.Around the end of the 20th century there were major changes to the governance of the UK with the establishment of devolved administrations for Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The statutory incorporation followed acceptance of the European Convention on Human Rights.. The UK is still a key global player diplomatically and militarily.
It plays leading roles in the EU, UN and NATO.. Controversy surrounds some of Britain's overseas military deployments, particularly in Afghanistan and Iraq.


=== 21st century ===
The 2008 global financial crisis severely affected the UK economy.
The coalition government of 2010 introduced austerity measures intended to tackle the substantial public deficits which resulted.. In 2014 the Scottish Government held a referendum on Scottish independence, with 55.3 per cent of voters rejecting the independence proposal and opting to remain within the United Kingdom.In 2016, 51.9 per cent of voters in the United Kingdom voted to leave the European Union.
The legal process of leaving the EU began on 29 March 2017, with the UK's invocation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, formally notifying the EU of the UK's intention to leave.. The article stipulates that the negotiations to leave will last at least two years.
The UK remained a full member of the EU until 31 January 2020.The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom, which originated in Wuhan, China sometime in late 2019, has seriously affected the UK.. Emergency financial measures and controls on movement have been put in place, and plans made for a "bailout taskforce" so the government could "take emergency stakes in corporate casualties...
in return for equity stakes".. The broadcast to the nation on 5 April by Queen Elizabeth was just the fifth time she had done so in response to an important national event or crisis.


== Geography ==

The total area of the United Kingdom is approximately 244,820 square kilometres (94,530 sq mi).
The country occupies the major part of the British Isles archipelago and includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern one-sixth of the island of Ireland and some smaller surrounding islands.. It lies between the North Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea with the south-east coast coming within 22 miles (35 km) of the coast of northern France, from which it is separated by the English Channel.
In 1993 10 per cent of the UK was forested, 46 per cent used for pastures and 25 per cent cultivated for agriculture.. The Royal Greenwich Observatory in London was chosen as the defining point of the Prime Meridian in Washington, D.C.
in 1884, although due to more accurate modern measurement the meridian actually lies 100 metres to the east of the observatory.The United Kingdom lies between latitudes 49° and 61° N, and longitudes 9° W and 2° E.. Northern Ireland shares a 224-mile (360 km) land boundary with the Republic of Ireland.
The coastline of Great Britain is 11,073 miles (17,820 km) long.. It is connected to continental Europe by the Channel Tunnel, which at 31 miles (50 km) (24 miles (38 km) underwater) is the longest underwater tunnel in the world.England accounts for just over half (53 per cent) of the total area of the UK, covering 130,395 square kilometres (50,350 sq mi).
Most of the country consists of lowland terrain, with more upland and some mountainous terrain north-west of the Tees-Exe line; including the Lake District, the Pennines, Exmoor and Dartmoor.. The main rivers and estuaries are the Thames, Severn and the Humber.
England's highest mountain is Scafell Pike (978 metres (3,209 ft)) in the Lake District.

Scotland accounts for just under a third (32 per cent) of the total area of the UK, covering 78,772 square kilometres (30,410 sq mi).. This includes nearly eight hundred islands, predominantly west and north of the mainland; notably the Hebrides, Orkney Islands and Shetland Islands.
Scotland is the most mountainous country in the UK and its topography is distinguished by the Highland Boundary Fault – a geological rock fracture – which traverses Scotland from Arran in the west to Stonehaven in the east.. The fault separates two distinctively different regions; namely the Highlands to the north and west and the Lowlands to the south and east.
The more rugged Highland region contains the majority of Scotland's mountainous land, including Ben Nevis which at 1,345 metres (4,413 ft) is the highest point in the British Isles.. Lowland areas – especially the narrow waist of land between the Firth of Clyde and the Firth of Forth known as the Central Belt – are flatter and home to most of the population including Glasgow, Scotland's largest city, and Edinburgh, its capital and political centre, although upland and mountainous terrain lies within the Southern Uplands.
Wales accounts for less than a tenth (9 per cent) of the total area of the UK, covering 20,779 square kilometres (8,020 sq mi).
Wales is mostly mountainous, though South Wales is less mountainous than North and mid Wales.. The main population and industrial areas are in South Wales, consisting of the coastal cities of Cardiff, Swansea and Newport, and the South Wales Valleys to their north.
The highest mountains in Wales are in Snowdonia and include Snowdon (Welsh: Yr Wyddfa) which, at 1,085 metres (3,560 ft), is the highest peak in Wales.. Wales has over 2,704 kilometres (1,680 miles) of coastline.
Several islands lie off the Welsh mainland, the largest of which is Anglesey (Ynys Môn) in the north-west.
Northern Ireland, separated from Great Britain by the Irish Sea and North Channel, has an area of 14,160 square kilometres (5,470 sq mi) and is mostly hilly.. It includes Lough Neagh which, at 388 square kilometres (150 sq mi), is the largest lake in the British Isles by area.
The highest peak in Northern Ireland is Slieve Donard in the Mourne Mountains at 852 metres (2,795 ft).


=== Climate ===

Most of the United Kingdom has a temperate climate, with generally cool temperatures and plentiful rainfall all year round.. The temperature varies with the seasons seldom dropping below −20 °C (−4 °F) or rising above 35 °C (95 °F).
Some parts, away from the coast, of upland England, Wales, Northern Ireland and most of Scotland, experience a subpolar oceanic climate (Cfc).. Higher elevations in Scotland experience a continental subarctic climate (Dfc) and the mountains experience a tundra climate (ET).
The prevailing wind is from the southwest and bears frequent spells of mild and wet weather from the Atlantic Ocean, although the eastern parts are mostly sheltered from this wind since the majority of the rain falls over the western regions the eastern parts are therefore the driest.. Atlantic currents, warmed by the Gulf Stream, bring mild winters; especially in the west where winters are wet and even more so over high ground.
Summers are warmest in the southeast of England  and coolest in the north.. Heavy snowfall can occur in winter and early spring on high ground, and occasionally settles to great depth away from the hills.


=== Administrative divisions ===

The geographical division of the United Kingdom into counties or shires began in England and Scotland in the early Middle Ages and was complete throughout Great Britain and Ireland by the early Modern Period.
Administrative arrangements were developed separately in each country of the United Kingdom, with origins which often pre-dated the formation of the United Kingdom.. Modern local government by elected councils, partly based on the ancient counties, was introduced separately: in England and Wales in a 1888 act, Scotland in a 1889 act and Ireland in a 1898 act, meaning there is no consistent system of administrative or geographic demarcation across the United Kingdom.
Until the 19th century there was little change to those arrangements, but there has since been a constant evolution of role and function.The organisation of local government in England is complex, with the distribution of functions varying according to local arrangements.
The upper-tier subdivisions of England are the nine regions, now used primarily for statistical purposes.. One region, Greater London, has had a directly elected assembly and mayor since 2000 following popular support for the proposal in a referendum.
It was intended that other regions would also be given their own elected regional assemblies, but a proposed assembly in the North East region was rejected by a referendum in 2004.. Since 2011, ten combined authorities have been established in England.
Eight of these have elected mayors, the first elections for which took place on 4 May 2017.. Below the regional tier, some parts of England have county councils and district councils and others have unitary authorities, while London consists of 32 London boroughs and the City of London.
Councillors are elected by the first-past-the-post system in single-member wards or by the multi-member plurality system in multi-member wards.For local government purposes, Scotland is divided into 32 council areas, with wide variation in both size and population.. The cities of Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aberdeen and Dundee are separate council areas, as is the Highland Council, which includes a third of Scotland's area but only just over 200,000 people.
Local councils are made up of elected councillors, of whom there are 1,223; they are paid a part-time salary.. Elections are conducted by single transferable vote in multi-member wards that elect either three or four councillors.
Each council elects a Provost, or Convenor, to chair meetings of the council and to act as a figurehead for the area.
Local government in Wales consists of 22 unitary authorities.. These include the cities of Cardiff, Swansea and Newport, which are unitary authorities in their own right.
Elections are held every four years under the first-past-the-post system.Local government in Northern Ireland has since 1973 been organised into 26 district councils, each elected by single transferable vote.. Their powers are limited to services such as collecting waste, controlling dogs and maintaining parks and cemeteries.
In 2008 the executive agreed on proposals to create 11 new councils and replace the present system.


== Dependencies ==

The United Kingdom has sovereignty over seventeen territories which do not form part of the United Kingdom itself: fourteen British Overseas Territories and three Crown dependencies.The fourteen British Overseas Territories are remnants of the British Empire: they are Anguilla; Bermuda; the British Antarctic Territory; the British Indian Ocean Territory; the British Virgin Islands; the Cayman Islands; the Falkland Islands; Gibraltar; Montserrat; Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha; the Turks and Caicos Islands; the Pitcairn Islands; South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; and Akrotiri and Dhekelia on the island of Cyprus.. British claims in Antarctica have limited international recognition.
Collectively Britain's overseas territories encompass an approximate land area of 480,000 square nautical miles (640,000 sq mi; 1,600,000 km2), with a total population of approximately 250,000.. A 1999 UK government white paper stated that: "[The] Overseas Territories are British for as long as they wish to remain British.
Britain has willingly granted independence where it has been requested; and we will continue to do so where this is an option." Self-determination is also enshrined in the constitutions of several overseas territories and three have specifically voted to remain under British sovereignty (Bermuda in 1995, Gibraltar in 2002 and the Falkland Islands in 2013).The Crown dependencies are possessions of the Crown, as opposed to overseas territories of the UK.. They comprise three independently administered jurisdictions: the Channel Islands of Jersey and Guernsey in the English Channel, and the Isle of Man in the Irish Sea.
By mutual agreement, the British Government manages the islands' foreign affairs and defence and the UK Parliament has the authority to legislate on their behalf.. Internationally, they are regarded as "territories for which the United Kingdom is responsible".
The power to pass legislation affecting the islands ultimately rests with their own respective legislative assemblies, with the assent of the Crown (Privy Council or, in the case of the Isle of Man, in certain circumstances the Lieutenant-Governor).. Since 2005 each Crown dependency has had a Chief Minister as its head of government.The British dependencies use a varied assortment of currencies.
These include the British pound, US dollar, New Zealand dollar, euro or their own currencies, which may be pegged to either.


== Politics ==

The United Kingdom is a unitary state under a constitutional monarchy.. Queen Elizabeth II is the monarch and head of state of the UK, as well as fifteen other independent countries.
These sixteen countries are sometimes referred to as "Commonwealth realms".. The monarch has "the right to be consulted, the right to encourage, and the right to warn".
The Constitution of the United Kingdom is uncodified and consists mostly of a collection of disparate written sources, including statutes, judge-made case law and international treaties, together with constitutional conventions.. As there is no technical difference between ordinary statutes and "constitutional law", the UK Parliament can perform "constitutional reform" simply by passing Acts of Parliament, and thus has the political power to change or abolish almost any written or unwritten element of the constitution.
No Parliament can pass laws that future Parliaments cannot change.


=== Government ===

The UK has a parliamentary government based on the Westminster system that has been emulated around the world: a legacy of the British Empire.. The parliament of the United Kingdom meets in the Palace of Westminster and has two houses: an elected House of Commons and an appointed House of Lords.
All bills passed are given Royal Assent before becoming law.
The position of prime minister, the UK's head of government, belongs to the person most likely to command the confidence of the House of Commons; this individual is typically the leader of the political party or coalition of parties that holds the largest number of seats in that chamber.. The prime minister chooses a cabinet and its members are formally appointed by the monarch to form Her Majesty's Government.
By convention, the monarch respects the prime minister's decisions of government.The cabinet is traditionally drawn from members of the prime minister's party or coalition and mostly from the House of Commons but always from both legislative houses, the cabinet being responsible to both.. Executive power is exercised by the prime minister and cabinet, all of whom are sworn into the Privy Council of the United Kingdom, and become Ministers of the Crown.
The Prime Minister is Boris Johnson, who has been in office since 24 July 2019.. Johnson is also the leader of the Conservative Party.
For elections to the House of Commons, the UK is divided into 650 constituencies, each electing a single member of parliament (MP) by simple plurality.. General elections are called by the monarch when the prime minister so advises.
Prior to the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949 required that a new election must be called no later than five years after the previous general election.The Conservative Party, the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats (formerly as the Liberal Party) have, in modern times, been considered the UK's three major political parties, representing the British traditions of conservatism, socialism and liberalism, respectively, though the Scottish National Party has been the third-largest party by number of seats won, ahead of the Liberal Democrats, in all three elections that have taken place since the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.. Most of the remaining seats were won by parties that contest elections only in one part of the UK: Plaid Cymru (Wales only); and the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin (Northern Ireland only).
In accordance with party policy, no elected Sinn Féin members of parliament have ever attended the House of Commons to speak on behalf of their constituents because of the requirement to take an oath of allegiance to the monarch.


=== Devolved administrations ===

Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland each have their own government or executive, led by a First Minister (or, in the case of Northern Ireland, a diarchal First Minister and deputy First Minister), and a devolved unicameral legislature.. England, the largest country of the United Kingdom, has no such devolved executive or legislature and is administered and legislated for directly by the UK's government and parliament on all issues.
This situation has given rise to the so-called West Lothian question, which concerns the fact that members of parliament from Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland can vote, sometimes decisively, on matters that affect only England.. The 2013 McKay Commission on this recommended that laws affecting only England should need support from a majority of English members of parliament.The Scottish Government and Parliament have wide-ranging powers over any matter that has not been specifically reserved to the UK Parliament, including education, healthcare, Scots law and local government.
In 2012, the UK and Scottish governments signed the Edinburgh Agreement setting out the terms for a referendum on Scottish independence in 2014, which was defeated 55.3 per cent to 44.7 per cent – resulting in Scotland remaining a devolved part of the United Kingdom.The Welsh Government and the Senedd (formerly the National Assembly for Wales) have more limited powers than those devolved to Scotland.. The Senedd is able to legislate on any matter not specifically reserved to the UK Parliament through Acts of the Senedd.
The Northern Ireland Executive and Assembly have powers similar to those devolved to Scotland.
The Executive is led by a diarchy representing unionist and nationalist members of the Assembly.. Devolution to Northern Ireland is contingent on participation by the Northern Ireland administration in the North-South Ministerial Council, where the Northern Ireland Executive cooperates and develops joint and shared policies with the Government of Ireland.
The British and Irish governments co-operate on non-devolved matters affecting Northern Ireland through the British–Irish Intergovernmental Conference, which assumes the responsibilities of the Northern Ireland administration in the event of its non-operation.
The UK does not have a codified constitution and constitutional matters are not among the powers devolved to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland.. Under the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty, the UK Parliament could, in theory, therefore, abolish the Scottish Parliament, Senedd or Northern Ireland Assembly.
Indeed, in 1972, the UK Parliament unilaterally prorogued the Parliament of Northern Ireland, setting a precedent relevant to contemporary devolved institutions.. In practice, it would be politically difficult for the UK Parliament to abolish devolution to the Scottish Parliament and the Senedd, given the political entrenchment created by referendum decisions.
The political constraints placed upon the UK Parliament's power to interfere with devolution in Northern Ireland are even greater than in relation to Scotland and Wales, given that devolution in Northern Ireland rests upon an international agreement with the Government of Ireland.


=== Law and criminal justice ===

The United Kingdom does not have a single legal system as Article 19 of the 1706 Treaty of Union provided for the continuation of Scotland's separate legal system.. Today the UK has three distinct systems of law: English law, Northern Ireland law and Scots law.
A new Supreme Court of the United Kingdom came into being in October 2009 to replace the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords.. The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, including the same members as the Supreme Court, is the highest court of appeal for several independent Commonwealth countries, the British Overseas Territories and the Crown Dependencies.Both English law, which applies in England and Wales, and Northern Ireland law are based on common-law principles.
The essence of common law is that, subject to statute, the law is developed by judges in courts, applying statute, precedent and common sense to the facts before them to give explanatory judgements of the relevant legal principles, which are reported and binding in future similar cases (stare decisis).. The courts of England and Wales are headed by the Senior Courts of England and Wales, consisting of the Court of Appeal, the High Court of Justice (for civil cases) and the Crown Court (for criminal cases).
The Supreme Court is the highest court in the land for both criminal and civil appeal cases in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and any decision it makes is binding on every other court in the same jurisdiction, often having a persuasive effect in other jurisdictions.

Scots law is a hybrid system based on both common-law and civil-law principles.. The chief courts are the Court of Session, for civil cases, and the High Court of Justiciary, for criminal cases.
The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom serves as the highest court of appeal for civil cases under Scots law.. Sheriff courts deal with most civil and criminal cases including conducting criminal trials with a jury, known as sheriff solemn court, or with a sheriff and no jury, known as sheriff summary Court.
The Scots legal system is unique in having three possible verdicts for a criminal trial: "guilty", "not guilty" and "not proven".. Both "not guilty" and "not proven" result in an acquittal.Crime in England and Wales increased in the period between 1981 and 1995, though since that peak there has been an overall fall of 66 per cent in recorded crime from 1995 to 2015, according to crime statistics.
The prison population of England and Wales has increased to 86,000, giving England and Wales the highest rate of incarceration in Western Europe at 148 per 100,000.. Her Majesty's Prison Service, which reports to the Ministry of Justice, manages most of the prisons within England and Wales.
The murder rate in England and Wales has stabilised in the first half of the 2010s with a murder rate around 1 per 100,000 which is half the peak in 2002 and similar to the rate in the 1980s Crime in Scotland fell slightly in 2014/2015 to its lowest level in 39 years in with 59 killings for a murder rate of 1.1 per 100,000.. Scotland's prisons are overcrowded but the prison population is shrinking.


=== Foreign relations ===

The UK is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, a member of NATO, the Commonwealth of Nations, the G7 finance ministers, the G7 forum (previously the G8 forum), the G20, the OECD, the WTO, the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
The UK is said to have a "Special Relationship" with the United States and a close partnership with France – the "Entente cordiale" – and shares nuclear weapons technology with both countries; the Anglo-Portuguese Alliance is considered to be the oldest binding military alliance in the world.. The UK is also closely linked with the Republic of Ireland; the two countries share a Common Travel Area and co-operate through the British-Irish Intergovernmental Conference and the British-Irish Council.
Britain's global presence and influence is further amplified through its trading relations, foreign investments, official development assistance and military engagements.. Canada, Australia and New Zealand, all of which are former colonies of the British Empire, are the most favourably viewed countries in the world by British people, sharing a number of close diplomatic, military and cultural ties with the UK.


=== Military ===

Her Majesty's Armed Forces consist of three professional service branches: the Royal Navy and Royal Marines (forming the Naval Service), the British Army and the Royal Air Force.
The armed forces of the United Kingdom are managed by the Ministry of Defence and controlled by the Defence Council, chaired by the Secretary of State for Defence.. The Commander-in-Chief is the British monarch, to whom members of the forces swear an oath of allegiance.
The Armed Forces are charged with protecting the UK and its overseas territories, promoting the UK's global security interests and supporting international peacekeeping efforts.. They are active and regular participants in NATO, including the Allied Rapid Reaction Corps, as well as the Five Power Defence Arrangements, RIMPAC and other worldwide coalition operations.
Overseas garrisons and facilities are maintained in Ascension Island, Bahrain, Belize, Brunei, Canada, Cyprus, Diego Garcia, the Falkland Islands, Germany, Gibraltar, Kenya, Oman, Qatar and Singapore.The British armed forces played a key role in establishing the British Empire as the dominant world power in the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries.. By emerging victorious from conflicts, Britain has often been able to decisively influence world events.
Since the end of the British Empire, the UK has remained a major military power.. Following the end of the Cold War, defence policy has a stated assumption that "the most demanding operations" will be undertaken as part of a coalition.
UK military operations in Bosnia, Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, have followed this approach.. Setting aside the intervention in Sierra Leone in 2000, the last occasion on which the British military fought alone was the Falklands War of 1982.According to sources which include the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute and the International Institute for Strategic Studies, the UK has either the fourth- or the fifth-highest military expenditure.
Total defence spending amounts to 2.0 per cent of national GDP.


== Economy ==


=== Overview ===

The UK has a partially regulated market economy.. Based on market exchange rates, the UK is today the fifth-largest economy in the world and the second-largest in Europe after Germany.
HM Treasury, led by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, is responsible for developing and executing the government's public finance policy and economic policy.. The Bank of England is the UK's central bank and is responsible for issuing notes and coins in the nation's currency, the pound sterling.
Banks in Scotland and Northern Ireland retain the right to issue their own notes, subject to retaining enough Bank of England notes in reserve to cover their issue.. The pound sterling is the world's third-largest reserve currency (after the US dollar and the euro).
Since 1997 the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee, headed by the Governor of the Bank of England, has been responsible for setting interest rates at the level necessary to achieve the overall inflation target for the economy that is set by the Chancellor each year.The UK service sector makes up around 79 per cent of GDP.. London is one of the three "command centres" of the global economy (alongside New York City and Tokyo), it is the world's largest financial centre alongside New York, and it has the largest city GDP in Europe.
Tourism is very important to the British economy; with over 27 million tourists arriving in 2004, the United Kingdom is ranked as the sixth major tourist destination in the world and London has the most international visitors of any city in the world.. The creative industries accounted for 7 per cent GVA in 2005 and grew at an average of 6 per cent per annum between 1997 and 2005.The Industrial Revolution started in the UK with an initial concentration on the textile industry, followed by other heavy industries such as shipbuilding, coal mining and steelmaking.
British merchants, shippers and bankers developed overwhelming advantage over those of other nations allowing the UK to dominate international trade in the 19th century.. As other nations industrialised, coupled with economic decline after two world wars, the United Kingdom began to lose its competitive advantage and heavy industry declined, by degrees, throughout the 20th century.
Manufacturing remains a significant part of the economy but accounted for only 16.7 per cent of national output in 2003.

The automotive industry employs around 800,000 people, with a turnover in 2015 of £70 billion, generating £34.6 billion of exports (11.8 per cent of the UK's total export goods).. In 2015, the UK produced around 1.6 million passenger vehicles and 94,500 commercial vehicles.
The UK is a major centre for engine manufacturing: in 2015 around 2.4 million engines were produced.. The UK motorsport industry employs around 41,000 people, comprises around 4,500 companies and has an annual turnover of around £6 billion.The aerospace industry of the UK is the second- or third-largest national aerospace industry in the world depending upon the method of measurement and has an annual turnover of around £30 billion.
The wings for the Airbus A380 and the A350 XWB are designed and manufactured at Airbus UK's Broughton facility, whilst over a quarter of the value of the Boeing 787 comes from UK manufacturers including Eaton, Messier-Bugatti-Dowty and Rolls-Royce.

BAE Systems plays a critical role in some of the world's biggest defence aerospace projects.. In the UK, the company makes large sections of the Typhoon Eurofighter and assembles the aircraft for the Royal Air Force.
It is also a principal subcontractor on the F35 Joint Strike Fighter – the world's largest single defence project – for which it designs and manufactures a range of components.. It also manufactures the Hawk, the world's most successful jet training aircraft.
Airbus UK also manufactures the wings for the A400 m military transporter.. Rolls-Royce is the world's second-largest aero-engine manufacturer.
Its engines power more than 30 types of commercial aircraft and it has more than 30,000 engines in service in the civil and defence sectors.
The UK space industry was worth £9.1bn in 2011 and employed 29,000 people.. It is growing at a rate of 7.5 per cent annually, according to its umbrella organisation, the UK Space Agency.
In 2013, the British Government pledged £60 m to the Skylon project: this investment will provide support at a "crucial stage" to allow a full-scale prototype of the SABRE engine to be built.
The pharmaceutical industry plays an important role in the UK economy and the country has the third-highest share of global pharmaceutical R&D expenditures.Agriculture is intensive, highly mechanised and efficient by European standards, producing about 60 per cent of food needs with less than 1.6 per cent of the labour force (535,000 workers).. Around two-thirds of production is devoted to livestock, one-third to arable crops.
Farmers are subsidised by the EU's Common Agricultural Policy.. The UK retains a significant, though much reduced fishing industry.
It is also rich in a number of natural resources including coal, petroleum, natural gas, tin, limestone, iron ore, salt, clay, chalk, gypsum, lead, silica and an abundance of arable land.

In the final quarter of 2008, the UK economy officially entered recession for the first time since 1991.. Following the likes of the United States, France and many major economies, in 2013, the UK lost its top AAA credit rating for the first time since 1978 with Moodys and Fitch credit agency, but, unlike the other major economies, retained its triple A rating with Standard & Poor's.
By the end of 2014, UK growth was the fastest in both the G7 and in Europe, and by September 2015, the unemployment rate was down to a seven-year low of 5.3 per cent.Since the 1980s, UK economic inequality, like Canada, Australia and the United States, has grown faster than in other developed countries.. The poverty line in the UK is commonly defined as being 60 per cent of the median household income.
The Office for National Statistics has estimated that in 2011, 14 million people were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and that one person in 20 (5.1 per cent) was experiencing "severe material depression", up from 3 million people in 1977.. Although the UK does not have an official poverty measure, the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Social Metrics Commission estimate, based on government data, that there are 14 million people in poverty in the UK.
1.5 million people experienced destitution in 2017.. In 2018, the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights visited the UK and found that government policies and cuts to social support are "entrenching high levels of poverty and inflicting unnecessary misery in one of the richest countries in the world." His final 2019 report found that the UK government was doubling down on policies that have "led to the systematic immiseration of millions across Great Britain" and that sustained and widespread cuts to social support "amount to retrogressive measures in clear violation of the United Kingdom’s human rights obligations."The UK has an external debt of $9.6 trillion dollars, which is the second-highest in the world after the US.
As a percentage of GDP, external debt is 408 per cent, which is the third-highest in the world after Luxembourg and Iceland.


=== Science and technology ===

England and Scotland were leading centres of the Scientific Revolution from the 17th century.. The United Kingdom led the Industrial Revolution from the 18th century, and has continued to produce scientists and engineers credited with important advances.
Major theorists from the 17th and 18th centuries include Isaac Newton, whose laws of motion and illumination of gravity have been seen as a keystone of modern science; from the 19th century Charles Darwin, whose theory of evolution by natural selection was fundamental to the development of modern biology, and James Clerk Maxwell, who formulated classical electromagnetic theory; and more recently Stephen Hawking, who advanced major theories in the fields of cosmology, quantum gravity and the investigation of black holes.Major scientific discoveries from the 18th century include hydrogen by Henry Cavendish; from the 20th century penicillin by Alexander Fleming, and the structure of DNA, by Francis Crick and others.. Famous British engineers and inventors of the Industrial Revolution include James Watt, George Stephenson, Richard Arkwright, Robert Stephenson and Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
Other major engineering projects and applications by people from the UK include the steam locomotive, developed by Richard Trevithick and Andrew Vivian; from the 19th century the electric motor by Michael Faraday, the first computer designed by Charles Babbage, the first commercial electrical telegraph by William Fothergill Cooke and Charles Wheatstone, the incandescent light bulb by Joseph Swan, and the first practical telephone, patented by Alexander Graham Bell; and in the 20th century the world's first working television system by John Logie Baird and others, the jet engine by Frank Whittle, the basis of the modern computer by Alan Turing, and the World Wide Web by Tim Berners-Lee.Scientific research and development remains important in British universities, with many establishing science parks to facilitate production and co-operation with industry.. Between 2004 and 2008 the UK produced 7 per cent of the world's scientific research papers and had an 8 per cent share of scientific citations, the third and second-highest in the world (after the United States and China, respectively).
Scientific journals produced in the UK include Nature, the British Medical Journal and The Lancet.


=== Transport ===

A radial road network totals 29,145 miles (46,904 km) of main roads, 2,173 miles (3,497 km) of motorways and 213,750 miles (344,000 km) of paved roads.. The M25, encircling London, is the largest and busiest bypass in the world.
In 2009 there were a total of 34 million licensed vehicles in Great Britain.

The UK has a railway network of 10,072 miles (16,209 km) in Great Britain and 189 miles (304 km) in Northern Ireland.. Railways in Northern Ireland are operated by NI Railways, a subsidiary of state-owned Translink.
In Great Britain, the British Rail network was privatised between 1994 and 1997, which was followed by a rapid rise in passenger numbers following years of decline, although the factors behind this are disputed.. The UK was ranked eighth among national European rail systems in the 2017 European Railway Performance Index assessing intensity of use, quality of service and safety.
Network Rail owns and manages most of the fixed assets (tracks, signals etc.).. Around twenty, mostly privately owned, train operating companies operate passenger trains.
In 2015, 1.68 billion passengers were carried.. There are about 1,000 freight trains in daily operation.
HS2, a new high-speed railway line,  is estimated to cost £56 billion.. Crossrail, under construction in London, is Europe's largest construction project with a £15 billion projected cost.In the year from October 2009 to September 2010 UK airports handled a total of 211.4 million passengers.
In that period the three largest airports were London Heathrow Airport (65.6 million passengers), Gatwick Airport (31.5 million passengers) and London Stansted Airport (18.9 million passengers).. London Heathrow Airport, located 15 miles (24 km) west of the capital, has the most international passenger traffic of any airport in the world and is the hub for the UK flag carrier British Airways, as well as Virgin Atlantic.


=== Energy ===

In 2006, the UK was the world's ninth-largest consumer of energy and the 15th-largest producer.
The UK is home to a number of large energy companies, including two of the six oil and gas "supermajors" – BP and Royal Dutch Shell.. In 2011, 40 per cent of the UK's electricity was produced by gas, 30 per cent by coal, 19 per cent by nuclear power and 4.2 per cent by wind, hydro, biofuels and wastes.In 2013, the UK produced 914 thousand barrels per day (bbl/d) of oil and consumed 1,507 thousand bbl/d.
Production is now in decline and the UK has been a net importer of oil since 2005.. In 2010 the UK had around 3.1 billion barrels of proven crude oil reserves, the largest of any EU member state.In 2009, the UK was the 13th-largest producer of natural gas in the world and the largest producer in the EU.
Production is now in decline and the UK has been a net importer of natural gas since 2004.Coal production played a key role in the UK economy in the 19th and 20th centuries.. In the mid-1970s, 130 million tonnes of coal were produced annually, not falling below 100 million tonnes until the early 1980s.
During the 1980s and 1990s the industry was scaled back considerably.. In 2011, the UK produced 18.3 million tonnes of coal.
In 2005 it had proven recoverable coal reserves of 171 million tons.. The UK Coal Authority has stated there is a potential to produce between 7 billion tonnes and 16 billion tonnes of coal through underground coal gasification (UCG) or 'fracking', and that, based on current UK coal consumption, such reserves could last between 200 and 400 years.
Environmental and social concerns have been raised over chemicals getting into the water table and minor earthquakes damaging homes.In the late 1990s, nuclear power plants contributed around 25 per cent of total annual electricity generation in the UK, but this has gradually declined as old plants have been shut down and ageing-related problems affect plant availability.. In 2012, the UK had 16 reactors normally generating about 19 per cent of its electricity.
All but one of the reactors will be retired by 2023.. Unlike Germany and Japan, the UK intends to build a new generation of nuclear plants from about 2018.The total of all renewable electricity sources provided for 14.9 per cent of the electricity generated in the United Kingdom in 2013, reaching 53.7 TWh of electricity generated.
The UK is one of the best sites in Europe for wind energy, and wind power production is its fastest growing supply, in 2014 it generated 9.3 per cent of the UK's total electricity.


=== Water supply and sanitation ===

Access to improved water supply and sanitation in the UK is universal.. It is estimated that 96.7 per cent of households are connected to the sewer network.
According to the Environment Agency, total water abstraction for public water supply in the UK was 16,406 megalitres per day in 2007.. Drinking water standards and wastewater discharge standards in the UK, as in other countries of the European Union, were formerly determined by the EU when the UK was a member state (see Water supply and sanitation in the European Union).In England and Wales water and sewerage services are provided by 10 private regional water and sewerage companies and 13 mostly smaller private "water only" companies.
In Scotland water and sewerage services are provided by a single public company, Scottish Water.. In Northern Ireland water and sewerage services are also provided by a single public entity, Northern Ireland Water.


== Demographics ==

A census is taken simultaneously in all parts of the UK every ten years.
In the 2011 census the total population of the United Kingdom was 63,181,775.. It is the third-largest in the European Union, the fifth-largest in the Commonwealth and the 22nd-largest in the world.
In mid-2014 and mid-2015 net long-term international migration contributed more to population growth.. In mid-2012 and mid-2013 natural change contributed the most to population growth.
Between 2001 and 2011 the population increased by an average annual rate of approximately 0.7 per cent.. This compares to 0.3 per cent per year in the period 1991 to 2001 and 0.2 per cent in the decade 1981 to 1991.
The 2011 census also confirmed that the proportion of the population aged 0–14 has nearly halved (31 per cent in 1911 compared to 18 in 2011) and the proportion of older people aged 65 and over has more than tripled (from 5 per cent to 16 per cent).England's population in 2011 was 53 million.. It is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, with 420 people resident per square kilometre in mid-2015.
with a particular concentration in London and the south-east.. The 2011 census put Scotland's population at 5.3 million, Wales at 3.06 million and Northern Ireland at 1.81 million.In 2017 the average total fertility rate (TFR) across the UK was 1.74 children born per woman.
While a rising birth rate is contributing to population growth, it remains considerably below the baby boom peak of 2.95 children per woman in 1964, or the high of 6.02 children born per woman in 1815, below the replacement rate of 2.1, but higher than the 2001 record low of 1.63.. In 2011, 47.3 per cent of births in the UK were to unmarried women.
The Office for National Statistics published a bulletin in 2015 showing that, out of the UK population aged 16 and over, 1.7 per cent identify as lesbian, gay, or bisexual (2.0 per cent of males and 1.5 per cent of females); 4.5 per cent of respondents responded with "other", "I don't know", or did not respond.. In 2018 the median age of the UK population was 41.7 years.


=== Ethnic groups ===

Historically, indigenous British people were thought to be descended from the various ethnic groups that settled there before the 12th century: the Celts, Romans, Anglo-Saxons, Norse and the Normans.
Welsh people could be the oldest ethnic group in the UK.. A 2006 genetic study shows that more than 50 per cent of England's gene pool contains Germanic Y chromosomes.
Another 2005 genetic analysis indicates that "about 75 per cent of the traceable ancestors of the modern British population had arrived in the British isles by about 6,200 years ago, at the start of the British Neolithic or Stone Age", and that the British broadly share a common ancestry with the Basque people.The UK has a history of non-white immigration with Liverpool having the oldest Black population in the country dating back to at least the 1730s during the period of the African slave trade.. During this period it is estimated the Afro-Caribbean population of Great Britain was 10,000 to 15,000 which later declined due to the abolition of slavery.
The UK also has the oldest Chinese community in Europe, dating to the arrival of Chinese seamen in the 19th century.. In 1950 there were probably fewer than 20,000 non-white residents in Britain, almost all born overseas.
In 1951 there were an estimated 94,500 people living in Britain who had been born in South Asia, China, Africa and the Caribbean, just under 0.2 per cent of the UK population.. By 1961 this number had more than quadrupled to 384,000, just over 0.7 per cent of the United Kingdom population.Since 1948 substantial immigration from Africa, the Caribbean and South Asia has been a legacy of ties forged by the British Empire.
Migration from new EU member states in Central and Eastern Europe since 2004 has resulted in growth in these population groups, although some of this migration has been temporary.. Since the 1990s, there has been substantial diversification of the immigrant population, with migrants to the UK coming from a much wider range of countries than previous waves, which tended to involve larger numbers of migrants coming from a relatively small number of countries.
Academics have argued that the ethnicity categories employed in British national statistics, which were first introduced in the 1991 census, involve confusion between the concepts of ethnicity and race.
In 2011, 87.2 per cent of the UK population identified themselves as white, meaning 12.8 per cent of the UK population identify themselves as of one of number of ethnic minority groups.. In the 2001 census, this figure was 7.9 per cent of the UK population.Because of differences in the wording of the census forms used in England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, data on the Other White group is not available for the UK as a whole, but in England and Wales this was the fastest growing group between the 2001 and 2011 censuses, increasing by 1.1 million (1.8 percentage points).
Amongst groups for which comparable data is available for all parts of the UK level, the Other Asian category increased from 0.4 per cent to 1.4 per cent of the population between 2001 and 2011, while the Mixed category rose from 1.2 per cent to 2 per cent.Ethnic diversity varies significantly across the UK.. 30.4 per cent of London's population and 37.4 per cent of Leicester's was estimated to be non-white in 2005, whereas less than 5 per cent of the populations of North East England, Wales and the South West were from ethnic minorities, according to the 2001 census.
In 2016, 31.4 per cent of primary and 27.9 per cent of secondary pupils at state schools in England were members of an ethnic minority.. The 1991 census was the first UK census to have a question on ethnic group.
In the 1991 UK census 94.1 per cent of people reported themselves as being White British, White Irish or White Other with 5.9 per cent of people reporting themselves as coming from other minority groups.


=== Languages ===

The UK's de facto official language is English.. It is estimated that 95 per cent of the UK's population are monolingual English speakers.
5.5 per cent of the population are estimated to speak languages brought to the UK as a result of relatively recent immigration.. South Asian languages, including Punjabi, Hindi, Bengali and Gujarati, are the largest grouping and are spoken by 2.7 per cent of the UK population.
According to the 2011 census, Polish has become the second-largest language spoken in England and has 546,000 speakers.. In 2019, some three quarters of a million people spoke little or no English.Three indigenous Celtic languages are spoken in the UK: Welsh, Irish and Scottish Gaelic.
Cornish, which became extinct as a first language in the late 18th century, is subject to revival efforts and has a small group of second language speakers.. In the 2011 Census, approximately one-fifth (19 per cent) of the population of Wales said they could speak Welsh, an increase from the 1991 Census (18 per cent).
In addition, it is estimated that about 200,000 Welsh speakers live in England.. In the same census in Northern Ireland 167,487 people (10.4 per cent) stated that they had "some knowledge of Irish" (see Irish language in Northern Ireland), almost exclusively in the nationalist (mainly Catholic) population.
Over 92,000 people in Scotland (just under 2 per cent of the population) had some Gaelic language ability, including 72 per cent of those living in the Outer Hebrides.. The number of children being taught either Welsh or Scottish Gaelic is increasing.
Among emigrant-descended populations some Scottish Gaelic is still spoken in Canada (principally Nova Scotia and Cape Breton Island), and Welsh in Patagonia, Argentina.Scots, a language descended from early northern Middle English, has limited recognition alongside its regional variant, Ulster Scots in Northern Ireland, without specific commitments to protection and promotion.It is compulsory for pupils to study a second language up to the age of 14 in England.. French and German are the two most commonly taught second languages in England and Scotland.
All pupils in Wales are either taught Welsh as a second language up to age 16, or are taught in Welsh, as a first language.


=== Religion ===

Forms of Christianity have dominated religious life in what is now the United Kingdom for over 1400 years.. Although a majority of citizens still identify with Christianity in many surveys, regular church attendance has fallen dramatically since the middle of the 20th century, while immigration and demographic change have contributed to the growth of other faiths, most notably Islam.
This has led some commentators to variously describe the UK as a multi-faith, secularised, or post-Christian society.In the 2001 census 71.6 per cent of all respondents indicated that they were Christians, with the next largest faiths being Islam (2.8 per cent), Hinduism (1.0 per cent), Sikhism (0.6 per cent), Judaism (0.5 per cent), Buddhism (0.3 per cent) and all other religions (0.3 per cent).. 15 per cent of respondents stated that they had no religion, with a further 7 per cent not stating a religious preference.
A Tearfund survey in 2007 showed only one in ten Britons actually attend church weekly.. Between the 2001 and 2011 census there was a decrease in the number of people who identified as Christian by 12 per cent, whilst the percentage of those reporting no religious affiliation doubled.
This contrasted with growth in the other main religious group categories, with the number of Muslims increasing by the most substantial margin to a total of about 5 per cent.. The Muslim population has increased from 1.6 million in 2001 to 2.7 million in 2011, making it the second-largest religious group in the United Kingdom.

In a 2016 survey conducted by BSA (British Social Attitudes) on religious affiliation; 53 per cent of respondents indicated 'no religion', while 41 per cent indicated they were Christians, followed by 6 per cent who affiliated with other religions (e.g.
Islam, Hinduism, Judaism, etc.).. Among Christians, adherents to the Church of England constituted 15 per cent, Roman Catholic Church 9 per cent, and other Christians (including Presbyterians, Methodists, other Protestants, as well as Eastern Orthodox), 17 per cent.
71 per cent of young people aged 18––24 said they had no religion.The Church of England is the established church in England.. It retains a representation in the UK Parliament and the British monarch is its Supreme Governor.
In Scotland, the Church of Scotland is recognised as the national church.. It is not subject to state control, and the British monarch is an ordinary member, required to swear an oath to "maintain and preserve the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Government" upon his or her accession.
The Church in Wales was disestablished in 1920 and, as the Church of Ireland was disestablished in 1870 before the partition of Ireland, there is no established church in Northern Ireland.. Although there are no UK-wide data in the 2001 census on adherence to individual Christian denominations, it has been estimated that 62 per cent of Christians are Anglican, 13.5 per cent Catholic, 6 per cent Presbyterian, and 3.4 per cent Methodist, with small numbers of other Protestant denominations such as Plymouth Brethren, and Orthodox churches.


=== Migration ===

The United Kingdom has experienced successive waves of migration.
The Great Famine in Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom, resulted in perhaps a million people migrating to Great Britain.. Throughout the 19th century a small population of German immigrants built up, numbering 28,644 in England and Wales in 1861.
London held around half of this population, and other small communities existed in Manchester, Bradford and elsewhere.. The German immigrant community was the largest group until 1891, when it became second to Russian Jews.
England has had small Jewish communities for many centuries, subject to occasional expulsions, but British Jews numbered fewer than 10,000 at the start of the 19th century.. After 1881, Russian Jews suffered bitter persecutions and some had 2,000,000 left the Russian Empire (which included parts of modern-day Poland, Belarus, Ukraine, Latvia and Lithuania) by 1914.
Around 120,000 settled permanently in Britain, becoming the largest ethnic minority from outside the British Isles; this population had increased to 370,000 by 1938.. Unable to return to Poland at the end of the Second World War, over 120,000 Polish veterans remained in the UK permanently.
After the Second World War, there was significant immigration from the colonies and newly independent former colonies, many from the Caribbean and Indian subcontinent, partly as a legacy of empire and partly driven by labour shortages.. In 1841, 0.25 per cent of the population of England and Wales was born in a foreign country, increasing to 1.5 per cent by 1901, 2.6 per cent by 1931, and 4.4 per cent in 1951.

In 2014 the net increase was 318,000: immigration was 641,000, up from 526,000 in 2013, while the number of people emigrating (for more than 12 months) was 323,000.
One of the more recent trends in migration has been the arrival of workers from the new EU member states in Eastern Europe, known as the A8 countries.. In 2011, citizens of the new EU member states made up 13 per cent of the immigrants entering the country.
Citizens of the European Union, including those of the UK, have the right to live and work in any EU member state.. The UK applied temporary restrictions to citizens of Romania and Bulgaria, which joined the EU in January 2007.
Research conducted by the Migration Policy Institute for the Equality and Human Rights Commission suggests that, between May 2004 and September 2009, 1.5 million workers migrated from the new EU member states to the UK, two-thirds of them Polish, but that many subsequently returned home, resulting in a net increase in the number of nationals of the new member states in the UK of some 700,000 over that period.. The late-2000s recession in the UK reduced the economic incentive for Poles to migrate to the UK, the migration becoming temporary and circular.
In 2009, for the first time since enlargement, more nationals of the eight central and eastern European states that had joined the EU in 2004 left the UK than arrived.. In 2010, there were 7.0 million foreign-born residents in the UK, corresponding to 11.3 per cent of the total population.Germany (German: Deutschland, German pronunciation: [ˈdɔʏtʃlant]), officially the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland, listen), is a country in Central and Western Europe.. Covering an area of 357,022 square kilometres (137,847 sq mi), it lies between the Baltic and North seas to the north, and the Alps to the south.
It borders Denmark to the north, Poland and the Czech Republic to the east, Austria and Switzerland to the south, and France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands to the west.
Various Germanic tribes have inhabited the northern parts of modern Germany since classical antiquity.. A region named Germania was documented before AD 100.
Beginning in the 10th century, German territories formed a central part of the Holy Roman Empire.. During the 16th century, northern German regions became the centre of the Protestant Reformation.
Following the Napoleonic Wars and the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, the German Confederation was formed in 1815.. In 1871, Germany became a nation state when most of the German states unified into the Prussian-dominated German Empire.
After World War I and the German Revolution of 1918–1919, the Empire was replaced by the parliamentary Weimar Republic.. The Nazi seizure of power in 1933 led to the establishment of a dictatorship, World War II, and the Holocaust.
After the end of World War II in Europe and a period of Allied occupation, two new German states were founded: West Germany and East Germany.. The Federal Republic of Germany was a founding member of the European Economic Community and the European Union.
The country was reunified on 3 October 1990.
Today, Germany is a federal parliamentary republic led by a chancellor.. With 83 million inhabitants of its 16 constituent states, it is the second-most populous country in Europe after Russia, as well as the most populous member state of the European Union.
Its capital and largest city is Berlin, and its financial centre is Frankfurt; the largest urban area is the Ruhr.
Germany is a great power with a strong economy; it has the largest economy in Europe, the world's fourth-largest economy by nominal GDP, and the fifth-largest by PPP.. As a global leader in several industrial and technological sectors, it is both the world's third-largest exporter and importer of goods.
A highly developed country with a very high standard of living, it offers social security and a universal health care system, environmental protections, and a tuition-free university education.. Germany is also a member of the United Nations, NATO, the G7, the G20, and the OECD.
Known for its long and rich cultural history, Germany has many World Heritage sites and is among the top tourism destinations in the world.


== Etymology ==

The English word Germany derives from the Latin Germania, which came into use after Julius Caesar adopted it for the peoples east of the Rhine.. The German term Deutschland, originally diutisciu land ("the German lands") is derived from deutsch, descended from Old High German diutisc "of the people" (from diot or diota "people"), originally used to distinguish the language of the common people from Latin and its Romance descendants.
This in turn descends from Proto-Germanic *þiudiskaz "of the people" (see also the Latinised form Theodiscus), derived from *þeudō, descended from Proto-Indo-European *tewtéh₂- "people", from which the word Teutons also originates.


== History ==

Ancient humans were present in Germany at least 600,000 years ago.. The first non-modern human fossil (the Neanderthal) was discovered in the Neander Valley.
Similarly dated evidence of modern humans has been found in the Swabian Jura, including 42,000-year-old flutes which are the oldest musical instruments ever found, the 40,000-year-old Lion Man, and the 35,000-year-old Venus of Hohle Fels.. The Nebra sky disk, created during the European Bronze Age, is attributed to a German site.


=== Germanic tribes and Frankish Empire ===

The Germanic tribes are thought to date from the Nordic Bronze Age or the Pre-Roman Iron Age.
From southern Scandinavia and north Germany, they expanded south, east, and west, coming into contact with the Celtic, Iranian, Baltic, and Slavic tribes.

Under Augustus, Rome began to invade Germania.. In 9 AD, three Roman legions were defeated by Arminius.
By 100 AD, when Tacitus wrote Germania, Germanic tribes had settled along the Rhine and the Danube (the Limes Germanicus), occupying most of modern Germany.. However, Baden Württemberg, southern Bavaria, southern Hesse and the western Rhineland had been incorporated into Roman provinces.
Around 260, Germanic peoples broke into Roman-controlled lands.. After the invasion of the Huns in 375, and with the decline of Rome from 395, Germanic tribes moved farther southwest: the Franks established the Frankish Kingdom and pushed east to subjugate Saxony and Bavaria, and areas of what is today eastern Germany were inhabited by Western Slavic tribes.


=== East Francia and Holy Roman Empire ===

Charlemagne founded the Carolingian Empire in 800; it was divided in 843 and the Holy Roman Empire emerged from the eastern portion.
The territory initially known as East Francia stretched from the Rhine in the west to the Elbe River in the east and from the North Sea to the Alps.. The Ottonian rulers (919–1024) consolidated several major duchies.
In 996 Gregory V became the first German Pope, appointed by his cousin Otto III, whom he shortly after crowned Holy Roman Emperor.. The Holy Roman Empire absorbed northern Italy and Burgundy under the Salian emperors (1024–1125), although the emperors lost power through the Investiture controversy.Under the Hohenstaufen emperors (1138–1254), German princes encouraged German settlement to the south and east (Ostsiedlung).
Members of the Hanseatic League, mostly north German towns, prospered in the expansion of trade.. Population declined starting with the Great Famine in 1315, followed by the Black Death of 1348–50.
The Golden Bull issued in 1356 provided the constitutional structure of the Empire and codified the election of the emperor by seven prince-electors.

Johannes Gutenberg introduced moveable-type printing to Europe, laying the basis for the democratization of knowledge.. In 1517, Martin Luther incited the Protestant Reformation; the 1555 Peace of Augsburg tolerated the "Evangelical" faith (Lutheranism), but also decreed that the faith of the prince was to be the faith of his subjects (cuius regio, eius religio).
From the Cologne War through the Thirty Years' Wars (1618–1648), religious conflict devastated German lands and significantly reduced the population.The Peace of Westphalia ended religious warfare among the Imperial Estates; their mostly German-speaking rulers were able to choose Roman Catholicism, Lutheranism, or the Reformed faith as their official religion.. The legal system initiated by a series of Imperial Reforms (approximately 1495–1555) provided for considerable local autonomy and a stronger Imperial Diet.
The House of Habsburg held the imperial crown from 1438 until the death of Charles VI in 1740.. Following the War of Austrian Succession and the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, Charles VI's daughter Maria Theresa ruled as Empress Consort when her husband, Francis I, became Emperor.From 1740, dualism between the Austrian Habsburg Monarchy and the Kingdom of Prussia dominated German history.
In 1772, 1793, and 1795, Prussia and Austria, along with the Russian Empire, agreed to the Partitions of Poland.. During the period of the French Revolutionary Wars, the Napoleonic era and the subsequent final meeting of the Imperial Diet, most of the Free Imperial Cities were annexed by dynastic territories; the ecclesiastical territories were secularised and annexed.
In 1806 the Imperium was dissolved; France, Russia, Prussia and the Habsburgs (Austria) competed for hegemony in the German states during the Napoleonic Wars.


=== German Confederation and Empire ===

Following the fall of Napoleon, the Congress of Vienna founded the German Confederation, a loose league of 39 sovereign states.. The appointment of the Emperor of Austria as the permanent president reflected the Congress's rejection of Prussia's rising influence.
Disagreement within restoration politics partly led to the rise of liberal movements, followed by new measures of repression by Austrian statesman Klemens von Metternich.. The Zollverein, a tariff union, furthered economic unity.
In light of revolutionary movements in Europe, intellectuals and commoners started the revolutions of 1848 in the German states.. King Frederick William IV of Prussia was offered the title of Emperor, but with a loss of power; he rejected the crown and the proposed constitution, a temporary setback for the movement.King William I appointed Otto von Bismarck as the Minister President of Prussia in 1862.
Bismarck successfully concluded the war with Denmark in 1864; the subsequent decisive Prussian victory in the Austro-Prussian War of 1866 enabled him to create the North German Confederation which excluded Austria.. After the defeat of France in the Franco-Prussian War, the German princes proclaimed the founding of the German Empire in 1871.
Prussia was the dominant constituent state of the new empire; the King of Prussia ruled as its Kaiser, and Berlin became its capital.In the Gründerzeit period following the unification of Germany, Bismarck's foreign policy as Chancellor of Germany secured Germany's position as a great nation by forging alliances and avoiding war.. However, under Wilhelm II, Germany took an imperialistic course, leading to friction with neighbouring countries.
A dual alliance was created with the multinational realm of Austria-Hungary; the Triple Alliance of 1882 included Italy.. Britain, France and Russia also concluded alliances to protect against Habsburg interference with Russian interests in the Balkans or German interference against France.
At the Berlin Conference in 1884, Germany claimed several colonies including German East Africa, German South West Africa, Togoland, and Kamerun.. Later, Germany further expanded its colonial empire to include holdings in the Pacific and China.
The colonial government in South West Africa (present-day Namibia), from 1904 to 1907, carried out the annihilation of the local Herero and Namaqua peoples as punishment for an uprising; this was the 20th century's first genocide.The assassination of Austria's crown prince on 28 June 1914 provided the pretext for Austria-Hungary to attack Serbia and trigger World War I.. After four years of warfare, in which approximately two million German soldiers were killed, a general armistice ended the fighting.
In the German Revolution (November 1918), Emperor Wilhelm II and the ruling princes abdicated their positions and Germany was declared a federal republic.. Germany's new leadership signed the Treaty of Versailles in 1919, accepting defeat by the Allies.
Germans perceived the treaty as humiliating, which was seen by historians as influential in the rise of Adolf Hitler.. Germany lost around 13% of its European territory and ceded all of its colonial possessions in Africa and the South Sea.


=== Weimar Republic and Nazi Germany ===

On 11 August 1919, President Friedrich Ebert signed the democratic Weimar Constitution.
In the subsequent struggle for power, communists seized power in Bavaria, but conservative elements elsewhere attempted to overthrow the Republic in the Kapp Putsch.. Street fighting in the major industrial centres, the occupation of the Ruhr by Belgian and French troops, and a period of hyperinflation followed.
A debt restructuring plan and the creation of a new currency in 1924 ushered in the Golden Twenties, an era of artistic innovation and liberal cultural life.

The worldwide Great Depression hit Germany in 1929.. Chancellor Heinrich Brüning's government pursued a policy of fiscal austerity and deflation which caused unemployment of nearly 30% by 1932.
The Nazi Party led by Adolf Hitler won a special election in 1932 and Hindenburg appointed Hitler as Chancellor of Germany on 30 January 1933.. After the Reichstag fire, a decree abrogated basic civil rights and the first Nazi concentration camp opened.
The Enabling Act gave Hitler unrestricted legislative power, overriding the constitution; his government established a centralised totalitarian state, withdrew from the League of Nations, and dramatically increased the country's rearmament.. A government-sponsored programme for economic renewal focused on public works, the most famous of which was the autobahn.In 1935, the regime withdrew from the Treaty of Versailles and introduced the Nuremberg Laws which targeted Jews and other minorities.
Germany also reacquired control of the Saarland in 1935, remilitarised the Rhineland in 1936, annexed Austria in 1938, annexed the Sudetenland in 1938 with the Munich Agreement, and in violation of the agreement occupied Czechoslovakia in March 1939.. Kristallnacht saw the burning of synagogues, the destruction of Jewish businesses, and mass arrests of Jewish people.

In August 1939, Hitler's government negotiated the Molotov–Ribbentrop pact that divided Eastern Europe into German and Soviet spheres of influence.
On 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland, beginning World War II in Europe; Britain and France declared war on Germany on 3 September.. In the spring of 1940, Germany conquered Denmark and Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and France, forcing the French government to sign an armistice.
The British repelled German air attacks in the Battle of Britain in the same year.. In 1941, German troops invaded Yugoslavia, Greece and the Soviet Union.
By 1942, Germany and her allies controlled most of continental Europe and North Africa, but following the Soviet victory at the Battle of Stalingrad, the allies' reconquest of North Africa and invasion of Italy in 1943, German forces suffered repeated military defeats.. In 1944, the Soviets pushed into Eastern Europe; the Western allies landed in France and entered Germany despite a final German counteroffensive.
Following Hitler's suicide during the Battle of Berlin, Germany surrendered on 8 May 1945, ending World War II in Europe.. Following the end of the war, surviving Nazi officials were tried for war crimes at the Nuremberg trials.In what later became known as the Holocaust, the German government persecuted minorities, including interning them in concentration and death camps across Europe.
In total 17 million people were systematically murdered, including 6 million Jews, at least 130,000 Romani, 275,000 persons with disabilities, thousands of Jehovah's Witnesses, thousands of homosexuals, and hundreds of thousands of political and religious opponents.. Nazi policies in German-occupied countries resulted in the deaths of 2.7 million Poles, 1.3 million Ukrainians, 1 million Belarusians and 3.5 million Soviet prisoners of war.
German military casualties have been estimated at 5.3 million, and around 900,000 German civilians died.. Around 12 million ethnic Germans were expelled from across Eastern Europe, and Germany lost roughly one-quarter of its pre-war territory.


=== East and West Germany ===

After Nazi Germany surrendered, the Allies partitioned Berlin and Germany's remaining territory into four occupation zones.
The western sectors, controlled by France, the United Kingdom, and the United States, were merged on 23 May 1949 to form the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesrepublik Deutschland (BRD)); on 7 October 1949, the Soviet Zone became the German Democratic Republic (Deutsche Demokratische Republik (DDR)).. They were informally known as West Germany and East Germany.
East Germany selected East Berlin as its capital, while West Germany chose Bonn as a provisional capital, to emphasise its stance that the two-state solution was temporary.West Germany was established as a federal parliamentary republic with a "social market economy".. Starting in 1948 West Germany became a major recipient of reconstruction aid under the Marshall Plan.
Konrad Adenauer was elected the first Federal Chancellor of Germany in 1949.. The country enjoyed prolonged economic growth (Wirtschaftswunder) beginning in the early 1950s.
West Germany joined NATO in 1955 and was a founding member of the European Economic Community.East Germany was an Eastern Bloc state under political and military control by the USSR via occupation forces and the Warsaw Pact.. Although East Germany claimed to be a democracy, political power was exercised solely by leading members (Politbüro) of the communist-controlled Socialist Unity Party of Germany, supported by the Stasi, an immense secret service.
While East German propaganda was based on the benefits of the GDR's social programmes and the alleged threat of a West German invasion, many of its citizens looked to the West for freedom and prosperity.. The Berlin Wall, built in 1961, prevented East German citizens from escaping to West Germany, becoming a symbol of the Cold War.Tensions between East and West Germany were reduced in the late 1960s by Chancellor Willy Brandt's Ostpolitik.
In 1989, Hungary decided to dismantle the Iron Curtain and open its border with Austria, causing the emigration of thousands of East Germans to West Germany via Hungary and Austria.. This had devastating effects on the GDR, where regular mass demonstrations received increasing support.
In an effort to help retain East Germany as a state, the East German authorities eased border restrictions, but this actually led to an acceleration of the Wende reform process culminating in the Two Plus Four Treaty under which Germany regained full sovereignty.. This permitted German reunification on 3 October 1990, with the accession of the five re-established states of the former GDR.
The fall of the Wall in 1989 became a symbol of the Fall of Communism, the Dissolution of the Soviet Union, German Reunification and Die Wende.


=== Reunified Germany and the European Union ===

United Germany was considered the enlarged continuation of West Germany so it retained its memberships in international organisations.. Based on the Berlin/Bonn Act (1994), Berlin again became the capital of Germany, while Bonn obtained the unique status of a Bundesstadt (federal city) retaining some federal ministries.
The relocation of the government was completed in 1999, and modernisation of the east German economy was scheduled to last until 2019.Since reunification, Germany has taken a more active role in the European Union, signing the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 and the Lisbon Treaty in 2007, and co-founding the Eurozone.. Germany sent a peacekeeping force to secure stability in the Balkans and sent German troops to Afghanistan as part of a NATO effort to provide security in that country after the ousting of the Taliban.In the 2005 elections, Angela Merkel became the first female chancellor.
In 2009 the German government approved a €50 billion stimulus plan.. Among the major German political projects of the early 21st century are the advancement of European integration, the energy transition (Energiewende) for a sustainable energy supply, the "Debt Brake" for balanced budgets, measures to increase the fertility rate (pronatalism), and high-tech strategies for the transition of the German economy, summarised as Industry 4.0.
Germany was affected by the European migrant crisis in 2015: the country took in over a million migrants and developed a quota system which redistributed migrants around its federal states.


== Geography ==

Germany is in Western and Central Europe, bordering Denmark to the north, Poland and the Czech Republic to the east, Austria to the southeast, and Switzerland to the south-southwest.. France, Luxembourg and Belgium are situated to the west, with the Netherlands to the northwest.
Germany is also bordered by the North Sea and, at the north-northeast, by the Baltic Sea.. German territory covers 357,022 km2 (137,847 sq mi), consisting of 348,672 km2 (134,623 sq mi) of land and 8,350 km2 (3,224 sq mi) of water.
It is the seventh largest country by area in Europe and the 62nd largest in the world.Elevation ranges from the mountains of the Alps (highest point: the Zugspitze at 2,963 metres or 9,721 feet) in the south to the shores of the North Sea (Nordsee) in the northwest and the Baltic Sea (Ostsee) in the northeast.. The forested uplands of central Germany and the lowlands of northern Germany (lowest point: Wilstermarsch at 3.54 metres or 11.6 feet below sea level) are traversed by such major rivers as the Rhine, Danube and Elbe.
Significant natural resources include iron ore, coal, potash, timber, lignite, uranium, copper, natural gas, salt, and nickel.


=== Climate ===
Most of Germany has a temperate climate, ranging from oceanic in the north to continental in the east and southeast.. Winters range from cold in the southern Alps to mild and are generally overcast with limited precipitation, while summers can vary from hot and dry to cool and rainy.
The northern regions have prevailing westerly winds that bring in moist air from the North Sea, moderating the temperature and increasing precipitation.. Conversely, the southeast regions have more extreme temperatures.From February 2019–2020, average monthly temperatures in Germany ranged from a low of 3.3 °C (37.9 °F) in January 2020 to a high of 19.8 °C (67.6 °F) in June 2019.
Average monthly precipitation ranged from 30 litres per square metre in February and April 2019 to 125 litres per square metre in February 2020.. Average monthly hours of sunshine ranged from 45 in November 2019 to 300 in June 2019.


=== Biodiversity ===

The territory of Germany can be divided into two ecoregions: European-Mediterranean montane mixed forests and Northeast-Atlantic shelf marine.
As of 2016 51% of Germany's land area is devoted to agriculture, while 30% is forested and 14% is covered by settlements or infrastructure.Plants and animals include those generally common to Central Europe.. According to the National Forest Inventory, beeches, oaks, and other deciduous trees constitute just over 40% of the forests; roughly 60% are conifers, particularly spruce and pine.
There are many species of ferns, flowers, fungi, and mosses.. Wild animals include roe deer, wild boar, mouflon (a subspecies of wild sheep), fox, badger, hare, and small numbers of the Eurasian beaver.
The blue cornflower was once a German national symbol.The 16 national parks in Germany include the Jasmund National Park, the Vorpommern Lagoon Area National Park, the Müritz National Park, the Wadden Sea National Parks, the Harz National Park, the Hainich National Park, the Black Forest National Park, the Saxon Switzerland National Park, the Bavarian Forest National Park and the Berchtesgaden National Park.. In addition, there are 17 Biosphere Reserves and 105 nature parks.
More than 400 zoos and animal parks operate in Germany.. The Berlin Zoo, which opened in 1844, is the oldest in Germany, and claims the most comprehensive collection of species in the world.


== Politics ==

Germany is a federal, parliamentary, representative democratic republic.
Federal legislative power is vested in the parliament consisting of the Bundestag (Federal Diet) and Bundesrat (Federal Council), which together form the legislative body.. The Bundestag is elected through direct elections: half by majority vote and half by proportional representation.
The members of the Bundesrat represent and are appointed by the governments of the sixteen federated states.. The German political system operates under a framework laid out in the 1949 constitution known as the Grundgesetz (Basic Law).
Amendments generally require a two-thirds majority of both the Bundestag and the Bundesrat; the fundamental principles of the constitution, as expressed in the articles guaranteeing human dignity, the separation of powers, the federal structure, and the rule of law, are valid in perpetuity.The president, currently Frank-Walter Steinmeier, is the head of state and invested primarily with representative responsibilities and powers.. He is elected by the Bundesversammlung (federal convention), an institution consisting of the members of the Bundestag and an equal number of state delegates.
The second-highest official in the German order of precedence is the Bundestagspräsident (president of the Bundestag), who is elected by the Bundestag and responsible for overseeing the daily sessions of the body.. The third-highest official and the head of government is the chancellor, who is appointed by the Bundespräsident after being elected by the party or coalition with the most seats in the Bundestag.
The chancellor, currently Angela Merkel, is the head of government and exercises executive power through their Cabinet.Since 1949, the party system has been dominated by the Christian Democratic Union and the Social Democratic Party of Germany.. So far every chancellor has been a member of one of these parties.
However, the smaller liberal Free Democratic Party and the Alliance '90/The Greens have also achieved some success.. Since 2007, the left-wing populist party The Left has been a staple in the German Bundestag, though they have never been part of the federal government.
In the 2017 German federal election, the right-wing populist Alternative for Germany gained enough votes to attain representation in the parliament for the first time.


=== Constituent states ===

Germany comprises sixteen federal states which are collectively referred to as Bundesländer.. Each state has its own state constitution, and is largely autonomous in regard to its internal organisation.
As of 2017 Germany is divided into 401 districts (Kreise) at a municipal level; these consist of 294 rural districts and 107 urban districts.


=== Law ===

Germany has a civil law system based on Roman law with some references to Germanic law.. The Bundesverfassungsgericht (Federal Constitutional Court) is the German Supreme Court responsible for constitutional matters, with power of judicial review.
Germany's supreme court system is specialised: for civil and criminal cases, the highest court of appeal is the inquisitorial Federal Court of Justice, and for other affairs the courts are the Federal Labour Court, the Federal Social Court, the Federal Finance Court and the Federal Administrative Court.Criminal and private laws are codified on the national level in the Strafgesetzbuch and the Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch respectively.. The German penal system seeks the rehabilitation of the criminal and the protection of the public.
Except for petty crimes, which are tried before a single professional judge, and serious political crimes, all charges are tried before mixed tribunals on which lay judges (Schöffen) sit side by side with professional judges.Germany has a low murder rate with 1.18 murders per 100,000 as of 2016.. In 2018, the overall crime rate fell to its lowest since 1992.


=== Foreign relations ===

Germany has a network of 227 diplomatic missions abroad and maintains relations with more than 190 countries.
Germany is a member of NATO, the OECD, the G8, the G20, the World Bank and the IMF.. It has played an influential role in the European Union since its inception and has maintained a strong alliance with France and all neighbouring countries since 1990.
Germany promotes the creation of a more unified European political, economic and security apparatus.. The governments of Germany and the United States are close political allies.
Cultural ties and economic interests have crafted a bond between the two countries resulting in Atlanticism.The development policy of Germany is an independent area of foreign policy.. It is formulated by the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development and carried out by the implementing organisations.
The German government sees development policy as a joint responsibility of the international community.. It was the world's second biggest aid donor in 2019 after the United States.


=== Military ===

Germany's military, the Bundeswehr, is organised into Heer (Army and special forces KSK), Marine (Navy), Luftwaffe (Air Force), Bundeswehr Joint Medical Service and Streitkräftebasis (Joint Support Service) branches.
In absolute terms, German military expenditure is the 8th highest in the world.. In 2018, military spending was at $49.5 billion, about 1.2% of the country's GDP, well below the NATO target of 2%.
As of January 2020, the Bundeswehr has a strength of 184,001 active soldiers and 80,947 civilians.
Reservists are available to the Armed Forces and participate in defence exercises and deployments abroad.. Until 2011, military service was compulsory for men at age 18, but this has been officially suspended and replaced with a voluntary service.
Since 2001 women may serve in all functions of service without restriction.. According to SIPRI, Germany was the fourth largest exporter of major arms in the world from 2014 to 2018.In peacetime, the Bundeswehr is commanded by the Minister of Defence.
In state of defence, the Chancellor would become commander-in-chief of the Bundeswehr.. The role of the Bundeswehr is described in the Constitution of Germany as defensive only.
But after a ruling of the Federal Constitutional Court in 1994 the term "defence" has been defined to not only include protection of the borders of Germany, but also crisis reaction and conflict prevention, or more broadly as guarding the security of Germany anywhere in the world.. As of 2017, the German military has about 3,600 troops stationed in foreign countries as part of international peacekeeping forces, including about 1,200 supporting operations against Daesh, 980 in the NATO-led Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan, and 800 in Kosovo.


== Economy ==

Germany has a social market economy with a highly skilled labour force, a low level of corruption, and a high level of innovation.
It is the world's third largest exporter of goods, and has the largest national economy in Europe which is also the world's fourth largest by nominal GDP and the fifth by PPP.. Its GDP per capita measured in purchasing power standards amounts to 121% of the EU27 average (100%).
The service sector contributes approximately 69% of the total GDP, industry 31%, and agriculture 1% as of 2017.. The unemployment rate published by Eurostat amounts to 3.2% as of January 2020, which is the fourth-lowest in the EU.Germany is part of the European single market which represents more than 450 million consumers.
In 2017, the country accounted for 28% of the Eurozone economy according to the International Monetary Fund.. Germany introduced the common European currency, the Euro, in 2002.
Its monetary policy is set by the European Central Bank, which is headquartered in Frankfurt.Being home to the modern car, the automotive industry in Germany is regarded as one of the most competitive and innovative in the world, and is the fourth largest by production.. The top 10 exports of Germany are vehicles, machinery, chemical goods, electronic products, electrical equipments, pharmaceuticals, transport equipments, basic metals, food products, and rubber and plastics.
Germany is one of the largest exporters globally.Of the world's 500 largest stock-market-listed companies measured by revenue in 2019, the Fortune Global 500, 29 are headquartered in Germany.. 30 major Germany-based companies are included in the DAX, the German stock market index which is operated by Frankfurt Stock Exchange.
Well-known international brands include Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Volkswagen, Audi, Siemens, Allianz, Adidas, Porsche, Bosch and Deutsche Telekom.. Berlin is a hub for startup companies and has become the leading location for venture capital funded firms in the European Union.
Germany is recognised for its large portion of specialised small and medium enterprises, known as the Mittelstand model.. These companies represent 48% global market leaders in their segments, labelled Hidden Champions.Research and development efforts form an integral part of the German economy.
In 2018 Germany ranked fourth globally in terms of number of science and engineering research papers published.. Research institutions in Germany include the Max Planck Society, the Helmholtz Association, and the Fraunhofer Society and the Leibniz Association.
Germany is the largest contributor to the European Space Agency.


=== Infrastructure ===

With its central position in Europe, Germany is a transport hub for the continent.. Its road network is among the densest in Europe.
The motorway (Autobahn) is widely known for having no federally mandated speed limit for some classes of vehicles.. The InterCityExpress or ICE train network serves major German cities as well as destinations in neighbouring countries with speeds up to 300 km/h (190 mph).
The largest German airports are Frankfurt Airport and Munich Airport.. The Port of Hamburg is one of the top twenty largest container ports in the world.In 2015, Germany was the world's seventh-largest consumer of energy.
The government and the nuclear power industry agreed to phase out all nuclear power plants by 2021.. It meets the country's power demands using 40% renewable sources.
Germany is committed to the Paris Agreement and several other treaties promoting biodiversity, low emission standards, and water management.. The country's household recycling rate is among the highest in the world—at around 65%.
Nevertheless, the country's total greenhouse gas emissions were the highest in the EU in 2017.. The German energy transition (Energiewende) is the recognised move to a sustainable economy by means of energy efficiency and renewable energy.


=== Tourism ===

Germany is the ninth most visited country in the world as of 2017, with 37.4 million visits.
Berlin has become the third most visited city destination in Europe.. Domestic and international travel and tourism combined directly contribute over €105.3 billion to German GDP.
Including indirect and induced impacts, the industry supports 4.2 million jobs.Germany's most visited and popular landmarks include Cologne Cathedral, the Brandenburg Gate, the Reichstag, the Dresden Frauenkirche, Neuschwanstein Castle, Heidelberg Castle, the Wartburg, and Sanssouci Palace.. The Europa-Park near Freiburg is Europe's second most popular theme park resort.


== Demographics ==

With a population of 80.2 million according to the 2011 census, rising to 83.1 million as of 2019, Germany is the most populous country in the European Union, the second most populous country in Europe after Russia, and the 19th most populous country in the world.
Its population density stands at 227 inhabitants per square kilometre (588 per square mile).. The overall life expectancy in Germany at birth is 80.19 years (77.93 years for males and 82.58 years for females).
The fertility rate of 1.41 children born per woman (2011 estimates) is below the replacement rate of 2.1 and is one of the lowest fertility rates in the world.. Since the 1970s, Germany's death rate has exceeded its birth rate.
However, Germany is witnessing increased birth rates and migration rates since the beginning of the 2010s, particularly a rise in the number of well-educated migrants.. Germany has the third oldest population in the world, with the average age of 47.4 years.Four sizeable groups of people are referred to as "national minorities" because their ancestors have lived in their respective regions for centuries: There is a Danish minority in the northernmost state of Schleswig-Holstein; the Sorbs, a Slavic population, are in the Lusatia region of Saxony and Brandenburg.; the Roma and Sinti live throughout the country; and the Frisians are concentrated in Schleswig-Holstein's western coast and in the north-western part of Lower Saxony.After the United States, Germany is the second most popular immigration destination in the world.
The majority of migrants live in western Germany, in particular in urban areas.. Of the country's residents, 18.6 million people (22.5%) were of immigrant or partially immigrant descent in 2016 (including persons descending or partially descending from ethnic German repatriates).
In 2015, the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs listed Germany as host to the second-highest number of international migrants worldwide, about 5% or 12 million of all 244 million migrants.. As of 2018, Germany ranks fifth amongst EU countries in terms of the percentage of migrants in the country's population, at 12.9%.Germany has a number of large cities.
There are 11 officially recognised metropolitan regions.. The country's largest city is Berlin, while its largest urban area is the Ruhr.


=== Religion ===

The 2011 German Census showed Christianity as the largest religion in Germany, with 66.8% identified themselves as Christian, with 3.8% of those not being church members.
31.7% declared themselves as Protestants, including members of the Evangelical Church in Germany (which encompasses Lutheran, Reformed and administrative or confessional unions of both traditions) and the free churches (German: Evangelische Freikirchen); 31.2% declared themselves as Roman Catholics, and Orthodox believers constituted 1.3%.. According to data from 2016, the Catholic Church and the Evangelical Church claimed 28.5% and 27.5%, respectively, of the population.
Islam is the second largest religion in the country.. In the 2011 census, 1.9% of the census population (1.52 million people) gave their religion as Islam, but this figure is deemed unreliable because a disproportionate number of adherents of this religion (and other religions, such as Judaism) are likely to have made use of their right not to answer the question.The United States of America (USA), commonly known as the United States (U.S.. or US) or America, is a country mostly located in central North America, between Canada and Mexico.
It consists of 50 states, a federal district, five major self-governing territories, and various possessions.. At 3.8 million square miles (9.8 million km2), it is the world's third- or fourth-largest country by total area.
With a 2019 estimated population of over 328 million, the U.S.. is the third most populous country in the world.
The Americans are a racially and ethnically diverse population that has been shaped through centuries of immigration.. The capital is Washington, D.C., and the most populous city is New York City.

Paleo-Indians migrated from Siberia to the North American mainland at least 12,000 years ago, and European colonization began in the 16th century.. The United States emerged from the thirteen British colonies established along the East Coast.
Numerous disputes between Great Britain and the colonies led to the American Revolutionary War lasting between 1775 and 1783, leading to independence.. Beginning in the late 18th century, the United States vigorously expanded across North America, gradually acquiring new territories, killing and displacing Native Americans, and admitting new states.
By 1848, the United States spanned the continent.Slavery was legal in much of the United States until the second half of the 19th century, when the American Civil War led to its abolition.The Spanish–American War and World War I entrenched the U.S.. as a world power, a status confirmed by the outcome of World War II.
It was the first country to develop nuclear weapons and is the only country to have used them in warfare.. During the Cold War, the United States and the Soviet Union competed in the Space Race, culminating with the 1969 Apollo 11 mission, the spaceflight that first landed humans on the Moon.
The end of the Cold War and collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 left the United States as the world's sole superpower.The United States is a federal republic and a representative democracy.. It is a founding member of the United Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund, Organization of American States (OAS), NATO, and other international organizations.
It is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
A highly developed country, the United States is the world's largest economy and accounts for approximately a quarter of global gross domestic product (GDP).. The United States is the world's largest importer and the second-largest exporter of goods, by value.
Although its population is only 4.3% of the world total, it holds 29.4% of the total wealth in the world, the largest share held by any country.. Despite income and wealth disparities, the United States continues to rank very high in measures of socioeconomic performance, including average wage, median income, median wealth, human development, per capita GDP, and worker productivity.
It is the foremost military power in the world, making up more than a third of global military spending, and is a leading political, cultural, and scientific force internationally.


== Etymology ==

The first known use of the name "America" dates back to 1507, when it appeared on a world map created by the German cartographer Martin Waldseemüller.. On this map, the name applied to South America in honor of the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci.
After returning from his expeditions, Vespucci first postulated that the West Indies did not represent Asia's eastern limit, as initially thought by Christopher Columbus, but instead were part of an entirely separate landmass thus far unknown to the Europeans.. In 1538, the Flemish cartographer Gerardus Mercator used the name "America" on his own world map, applying it to the entire Western Hemisphere.The first documentary evidence of the phrase "United States of America" dates from a January 2, 1776 letter written by Stephen Moylan, Esq., to Lt.
Col.. Joseph Reed, George Washington's aide-de-camp and Muster-Master General of the Continental Army.
Moylan expressed his wish to go "with full and ample powers from the United States of America to Spain" to seek assistance in the revolutionary war effort.. The first known publication of the phrase "United States of America" was in an anonymous essay in The Virginia Gazette newspaper in Williamsburg, Virginia, on April 6, 1776.The second draft of the Articles of Confederation, prepared by John Dickinson and completed no later than June 17, 1776, declared "The name of this Confederation shall be the 'United States of America'".
The final version of the Articles sent to the states for ratification in late 1777 contains the sentence "The Stile of this Confederacy shall be 'The United States of America'".. In June 1776, Thomas Jefferson wrote the phrase "UNITED STATES OF AMERICA" in all capitalized letters in the headline of his "original Rough draught" of the Declaration of Independence.
This draft of the document did not surface until June 21, 1776, and it is unclear whether it was written before or after Dickinson used the term in his June 17 draft of the Articles of Confederation.The short form "United States" is also standard.. Other common forms are the "U.S.," the "USA," and "America." Colloquial names are the "U.S.
of A." and, internationally, the "States." "Columbia," a name popular in poetry and songs of the late 18th century, derives its origin from Christopher Columbus; it appears in the name "District of Columbia." Many landmarks and institutions in the Western Hemisphere bear his name, including the country of Colombia.The phrase "United States" was originally plural, a description of a collection of independent states—e.g., "the United States are"—including in the Thirteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, ratified in 1865.. The singular form—e.g., "the United States is"—became popular after the end of the Civil War.
The singular form is now standard; the plural form is retained in the idiom "these United States." The difference is more significant than usage; it is a difference between a collection of states and a unit.A citizen of the United States is an "American." "United States," "American" and "U.S." refer to the country adjectivally ("American values," "U.S.. forces").
In English, the word "American" rarely refers to topics or subjects not directly connected with the United States.


== History ==


=== Indigenous peoples and pre-Columbian history ===

It has been generally accepted that the first inhabitants of North America migrated from Siberia by way of the Bering land bridge and arrived at least 12,000 years ago; however, increasing evidence suggests an even earlier arrival.. After crossing the land bridge, the Paleo-Indians moved southward along the Pacific coast and through an interior ice-free corridor.
The Clovis culture, which appeared around 11,000 BC, was initially believed to represent the first wave of human settlement of the Americas.. It is likely these represent the first of three major waves of migration into North America.Over time, indigenous cultures in North America grew increasingly complex, and some, such as the pre-Columbian Mississippian culture in the southeast, developed advanced agriculture, grand architecture, and state-level societies.
The Mississippian culture flourished in the south from 800 to 1600 AD, extending from the Mexican border down through Florida.. Its city state Cahokia is the largest, most complex pre-Columbian archaeological site in the modern-day United States.
In the Four Corners region, Ancestral Puebloan culture developed from centuries of agricultural experimentation.Three UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the United States are credited to the Pueblos: Mesa Verde National Park, Chaco Culture National Historical Park, and Taos Pueblo.. The earthworks constructed by Native Americans of the Poverty Point culture have also been designated a UNESCO World Heritage site.
In the southern Great Lakes region, the Iroquois Confederacy was established at some point between the twelfth and fifteenth centuries.. Most prominent along the Atlantic coast were the Algonquian tribes, who practiced hunting and trapping, along with limited cultivation.


=== Effects on and interaction with native populations ===

With the progress of European colonization in the territories of the contemporary United States, the Native Americans were often conquered and displaced.
The native population of America declined after European arrival for various reasons, primarily diseases such as smallpox and measles.Estimating the native population of North America at the time of European contact is difficult.. Douglas H.
Ubelaker of the Smithsonian Institution estimated that there was a population of 92,916 in the south Atlantic states and a population of 473,616 in the Gulf states, but most academics regard this figure as too low.. Anthropologist Henry F.
Dobyns believed the populations were much higher, suggesting 1,100,000 along the shores of the gulf of Mexico, 2,211,000 people living between Florida and Massachusetts, 5,250,000 in the Mississippi Valley and tributaries and 697,000 people in the Florida peninsula.In the early days of colonization, many European settlers were subject to food shortages, disease, and attacks from Native Americans.. Native Americans were also often at war with neighboring tribes and allied with Europeans in their colonial wars.
In many cases, however, natives and settlers came to depend on each other.. Settlers traded for food and animal pelts; natives for guns, ammunition and other European goods.
Natives taught many settlers to cultivate corn, beans, and squash.. European missionaries and others felt it was important to "civilize" the Native Americans and urged them to adopt European agricultural techniques and lifestyles.


=== European settlements ===

With the advancement of European colonization in North America, the Native Americans were often conquered and displaced.
The first Europeans to arrive in the contiguous United States were Spanish conquistadors such as Juan Ponce de León, who made his first visit to Florida in 1513.. Even earlier, Christopher Columbus landed in Puerto Rico on his 1493 voyage.
The Spanish set up the first settlements in Florida and New Mexico such as Saint Augustine and Santa Fe.. The French established their own as well along the Mississippi River.
Successful English settlement on the eastern coast of North America began with the Virginia Colony in 1607 at Jamestown and with the Pilgrims' Plymouth Colony in 1620.. Many settlers were dissenting Christian groups who came seeking religious freedom.
The continent's first elected legislative assembly, Virginia's House of Burgesses, was created in 1619.. The Mayflower Compact, signed by the Pilgrims before disembarking, and the Fundamental Orders of Connecticut, established precedents for the pattern of representative self-government and constitutionalism that would develop throughout the American colonies.Most settlers in every colony were small farmers, though other industries were formed.
Cash crops included tobacco, rice, and wheat.. Extraction industries grew up in furs, fishing and lumber.
Manufacturers produced rum and ships, and by the late colonial period, Americans were producing one-seventh of the world's iron supply.. Cities eventually dotted the coast to support local economies and serve as trade hubs.
English colonists were supplemented by waves of Scotch-Irish immigrants and other groups.. As coastal land grew more expensive, freed indentured servants claimed lands further west.

A large-scale slave trade with English privateers began.
Because of less disease and better food and treatment, the life expectancy of slaves was much higher in North America than further south, leading to a rapid increase in the numbers of slaves.. Colonial society was largely divided over the religious and moral implications of slavery, and colonies passed acts for and against the practice.
But by the turn of the 18th century, African slaves were replacing indentured servants for cash crop labor, especially in the South.With the establishment of the Province of Georgia in 1732, the 13 colonies that would become the United States of America were administered by the British as overseas dependencies.. All nonetheless had local governments with elections open to most free men.
With extremely high birth rates, low death rates, and steady settlement, the colonial population grew rapidly.. Relatively small Native American populations were eclipsed.
The Christian revivalist movement of the 1730s and 1740s known as the Great Awakening fueled interest both in religion and in religious liberty.During the Seven Years' War (known in the United States as the French and Indian War), British forces seized Canada from the French, but the francophone population remained politically isolated from the southern colonies.. Excluding the Native Americans, who were being conquered and displaced, the 13 British colonies had a population of over 2.1 million in 1770, about a third that of Britain.
Despite continuing, new arrivals, the rate of natural increase was such that by the 1770s only a small minority of Americans had been born overseas.. The colonies' distance from Britain had allowed the development of self-government, but their unprecedented success motivated monarchs to periodically seek to reassert royal authority.In 1774, the Spanish Navy ship Santiago, under Juan Pérez, entered and anchored in an inlet of Nootka Sound, Vancouver Island, in present-day British Columbia.
Although the Spanish did not land, natives paddled to the ship to trade furs for abalone shells from California.. At the time, the Spanish were able to monopolize the trade between Asia and North America, granting limited licenses to the Portuguese.
When the Russians began establishing a growing fur trading system in Alaska, the Spanish began to challenge the Russians, with Pérez's voyage being the first of many to the Pacific Northwest.During his third and final voyage, Captain James Cook became the first European to begin formal contact with Hawaii.. Captain Cook's last voyage included sailing along the coast of North America and Alaska searching for a Northwest Passage for approximately nine months.


=== Independence and expansion (1776–1865) ===

The American Revolutionary War was the first successful colonial war of independence against a European power.
Americans had developed an ideology of "republicanism" asserting that government rested on the will of the people as expressed in their local legislatures.. They demanded their rights as Englishmen and "no taxation without representation".
The British insisted on administering the empire through Parliament, and the conflict escalated into war.The Second Continental Congress unanimously adopted the Declaration of Independence, which asserted that Great Britain was not protecting Americans' unalienable rights.. July 4 is celebrated annually as Independence Day.
In 1777, the Articles of Confederation established a decentralized government that operated until 1789.

Following the decisive Franco-American victory at Yorktown in 1781, Britain signed the peace treaty of 1783, and American sovereignty was internationally recognized and the country was granted all lands east of the Mississippi River.. Nationalists led the Philadelphia Convention of 1787 in writing the United States Constitution, ratified in state conventions in 1788.
The federal government was reorganized into three branches, on the principle of creating salutary checks and balances, in 1789.. George Washington, who had led the Continental Army to victory, was the first president elected under the new constitution.
The Bill of Rights, forbidding federal restriction of personal freedoms and guaranteeing a range of legal protections, was adopted in 1791.Although the federal government criminalized the international slave trade in 1808, after 1820, cultivation of the highly profitable cotton crop exploded in the Deep South, and along with it, the slave population.. The Second Great Awakening, especially 1800–1840, converted millions to evangelical Protestantism.
In the North, it energized multiple social reform movements, including abolitionism; in the South, Methodists and Baptists proselytized among slave populations.Americans' eagerness to expand westward prompted a long series of American Indian Wars.. The Louisiana Purchase of French-claimed territory in 1803 almost doubled the nation's area.
The War of 1812, declared against Britain over various grievances and fought to a draw, strengthened U.S.. nationalism.
A series of military incursions into Florida led Spain to cede it and other Gulf Coast territory in 1819.. The expansion was aided by steam power, when steamboats began traveling along America's large water systems, many of which were connected by new canals, such as the Erie and the I&M; then, even faster railroads began their stretch across the nation's land.

From 1820 to 1850, Jacksonian democracy began a set of reforms which included wider white male suffrage; it led to the rise of the Second Party System of Democrats and Whigs as the dominant parties from 1828 to 1854.
The Trail of Tears in the 1830s exemplified the Indian removal policy that forcibly resettled Indians into the west on Indian reservations.. The U.S.
annexed the Republic of Texas in 1845 during a period of expansionist Manifest destiny.. The 1846 Oregon Treaty with Britain led to U.S.
control of the present-day American Northwest.. Victory in the Mexican–American War resulted in the 1848 Mexican Cession of California and much of the present-day American Southwest.
The California Gold Rush of 1848–49 spurred migration to the Pacific coast, which led to the California Genocide and the creation of additional western states.
After the Civil War, new transcontinental railways made relocation easier for settlers, expanded internal trade and increased conflicts with Native Americans.. In 1869, a new Peace Policy nominally promised to protect Native Americans from abuses, avoid further war, and secure their eventual U.S.
citizenship.. Nonetheless, large-scale conflicts continued throughout the West into the 1900s.


=== Civil War and Reconstruction era ===

Irreconcilable sectional conflict regarding the slavery of Africans and African Americans ultimately led to the American Civil War.
Initially, states entering the Union had alternated between slave and free states, keeping a sectional balance in the Senate, while free states outstripped slave states in population and in the House of Representatives.. But with additional western territory and more free-soil states, tensions between slave and free states mounted with arguments over federalism and disposition of the territories, as well as whether to expand or restrict slavery.With the 1860 election of Republican Abraham Lincoln, conventions in thirteen slave states ultimately declared secession and formed the Confederate States of America (the "South" or the "Confederacy"), while the federal government (the "Union") maintained that secession was illegal.
In order to bring about this secession, military action was initiated by the secessionists, and the Union responded in kind.. The ensuing war would become the deadliest military conflict in American history, resulting in the deaths of approximately 618,000 soldiers as well as many civilians.
The Union initially simply fought to keep the country united.. Nevertheless, as casualties mounted after 1863 and Lincoln delivered his Emancipation Proclamation, the main purpose of the war from the Union's viewpoint became the abolition of slavery.
Indeed, when the Union ultimately won the war in April 1865, each of the states in the defeated South was required to ratify the Thirteenth Amendment, which prohibited slavery.
The government enacted three constitutional amendments in the years after the war: the aforementioned Thirteenth as well as the Fourteenth Amendment providing citizenship to the nearly four million African Americans who had been slaves, and the Fifteenth Amendment ensuring in theory that African Americans had the right to vote.. The war and its resolution led to a substantial increase in federal power aimed at reintegrating and rebuilding the South while guaranteeing the rights of the newly freed slaves.
Reconstruction began in earnest following the war.
While President Lincoln attempted to foster friendship and forgiveness between the Union and the former Confederacy, his assassination on April 14, 1865, drove a wedge between North and South again.. Republicans in the federal government made it their goal to oversee the rebuilding of the South and to ensure the rights of African Americans.
They persisted until the Compromise of 1877 when the Republicans agreed to cease protecting the rights of African Americans in the South in order for Democrats to concede the presidential election of 1876.
Southern white Democrats, calling themselves "Redeemers," took control of the South after the end of Reconstruction.. From 1890 to 1910 the Redeemers established so-called Jim Crow laws, disenfranchising most blacks and some poor whites throughout the region.
Blacks faced racial segregation, especially in the South.. They also occasionally experienced vigilante violence, including lynching.


=== Further immigration, expansion, and industrialization ===

In the North, urbanization and an unprecedented influx of immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe supplied a surplus of labor for the country's industrialization and transformed its culture.
National infrastructure including telegraph and transcontinental railroads spurred economic growth and greater settlement and development of the American Old West.. The later invention of electric light and the telephone would also affect communication and urban life.The United States fought Indian Wars west of the Mississippi River from 1810 to at least 1890.
Most of these conflicts ended with the cession of Native American territory and their confinement to Indian reservations.. This further expanded acreage under mechanical cultivation, increasing surpluses for international markets.
Mainland expansion also included the purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867.. In 1893, pro-American elements in Hawaii overthrew the monarchy and formed the Republic of Hawaii, which the U.S.
annexed in 1898.. Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines were ceded by Spain in the same year, following the Spanish–American War.
American Samoa was acquired by the United States in 1900 after the end of the Second Samoan Civil War.. The U.S.
Virgin Islands were purchased from Denmark in 1917.Rapid economic development during the late 19th and early 20th centuries fostered the rise of many prominent industrialists.. Tycoons like Cornelius Vanderbilt, John D.
Rockefeller, and Andrew Carnegie led the nation's progress in railroad, petroleum, and steel industries.. Banking became a major part of the economy, with J.
P.. Morgan playing a notable role.
The American economy boomed, becoming the world's largest, and the United States achieved great power status.. These dramatic changes were accompanied by social unrest and the rise of populist, socialist, and anarchist movements.
This period eventually ended with the advent of the Progressive Era, which saw significant reforms including women's suffrage, alcohol prohibition, regulation of consumer goods, greater antitrust measures to ensure competition and attention to worker conditions.


=== World War I, Great Depression, and World War II ===

The United States remained neutral from the outbreak of World War I in 1914 until 1917, when it joined the war as an "associated power," alongside the formal Allies of World War I, helping to turn the tide against the Central Powers.. In 1919, President Woodrow Wilson took a leading diplomatic role at the Paris Peace Conference and advocated strongly for the U.S.
to join the League of Nations.. However, the Senate refused to approve this and did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles that established the League of Nations.In 1920, the women's rights movement won passage of a constitutional amendment granting women's suffrage.
The 1920s and 1930s saw the rise of radio for mass communication and the invention of early television.. The prosperity of the Roaring Twenties ended with the Wall Street Crash of 1929 and the onset of the Great Depression.
After his election as president in 1932, Franklin D.. Roosevelt responded with the New Deal.
The Great Migration of millions of African Americans out of the American South began before World War I and extended through the 1960s; whereas the Dust Bowl of the mid-1930s impoverished many farming communities and spurred a new wave of western migration.At first effectively neutral during World War II, the United States began supplying materiel to the Allies in March 1941 through the Lend-Lease program.. On December 7, 1941, the Empire of Japan launched a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor, prompting the United States to join the Allies against the Axis powers.
Although Japan attacked the United States first, the U.S.. nonetheless pursued a "Europe first" defense policy.
The United States thus left its vast Asian colony, the Philippines, isolated and fighting a losing struggle against Japanese invasion and occupation, as military resources were devoted to the European theater.. During the war, the United States was referred to as one of the "Four Policemen" of Allies power who met to plan the postwar world, along with Britain, the Soviet Union and China.
Although the nation lost around 400,000 military personnel, it emerged relatively undamaged from the war with even greater economic and military influence.

The United States played a leading role in the Bretton Woods and Yalta conferences with the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and other Allies, which signed agreements on new international financial institutions and Europe's postwar reorganization.. As an Allied victory was won in Europe, a 1945 international conference held in San Francisco produced the United Nations Charter, which became active after the war.
The United States and Japan then fought each other in the largest naval battle in history, the Battle of Leyte Gulf.. The United States eventually developed the first nuclear weapons and used them on Japan in the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki; the Japanese surrendered on September 2, ending World War II.


=== Cold War and civil rights era ===

After World War II, the United States and the Soviet Union competed for power, influence, and prestige during what became known as the Cold War, driven by an ideological divide between capitalism and communism.
They dominated the military affairs of Europe, with the U.S.. and its NATO allies on one side and the USSR and its Warsaw Pact allies on the other.
The U.S.. developed a policy of containment towards the expansion of communist influence.
While the U.S.. and Soviet Union engaged in proxy wars and developed powerful nuclear arsenals, the two countries avoided direct military conflict.The United States often opposed Third World movements that it viewed as Soviet-sponsored, and occasionally pursued direct action for regime change against left-wing governments, even supporting right-wing authoritarian governments at times.
American troops fought communist Chinese and North Korean forces in the Korean War of 1950–53.. The Soviet Union's 1957 launch of the first artificial satellite and its 1961 launch of the first manned spaceflight initiated a "Space Race" in which the United States became the first nation to land a man on the moon in 1969.
A proxy war in Southeast Asia eventually evolved into full American participation, as the Vietnam War.At home, the U.S.. experienced sustained economic expansion and a rapid growth of its population and middle class.
Construction of an Interstate Highway System transformed the nation's infrastructure over the following decades.. Millions moved from farms and inner cities to large suburban housing developments.
In 1959 Hawaii became the 50th and last U.S.. state added to the country.
The growing Civil Rights Movement used nonviolence to confront segregation and discrimination, with Martin Luther King Jr.. becoming a prominent leader and figurehead.
A combination of court decisions and legislation, culminating in the Civil Rights Act of 1968, sought to end racial discrimination.. Meanwhile, a counterculture movement grew which was fueled by opposition to the Vietnam war, black nationalism, and the sexual revolution.

The launch of a "War on Poverty" expanded entitlements and welfare spending, including the creation of Medicare and Medicaid, two programs that provide health coverage to the elderly and poor, respectively, and the means-tested Food Stamp Program and Aid to Families with Dependent Children.The 1970s and early 1980s saw the onset of stagflation.
After his election in 1980, President Ronald Reagan responded to economic stagnation with free-market oriented reforms.. Following the collapse of détente, he abandoned "containment" and initiated the more aggressive "rollback" strategy towards the USSR.
After a surge in female labor participation over the previous decade, by 1985 the majority of women aged 16 and over were employed.The late 1980s brought a "thaw" in relations with the USSR, and its collapse in 1991 finally ended the Cold War.. This brought about unipolarity with the U.S.
unchallenged as the world's dominant superpower.. The concept of Pax Americana, which had appeared in the post-World War II period, gained wide popularity as a term for the post-Cold War new world order.


=== Contemporary history ===

After the Cold War, the conflict in the Middle East triggered a crisis in 1990, when Iraq under Saddam Hussein invaded and attempted to annex Kuwait, an ally of the United States.
Fearing the instability would spread to other regions, President George H.. W.
Bush launched Operation Desert Shield, a defensive force buildup in Saudi Arabia, and Operation Desert Storm, in a staging titled the Gulf War; waged by coalition forces from 34 nations, led by the United States against Iraq ending in the expulsion of Iraqi forces from Kuwait and restoration of the monarchy.Originating within U.S.. military defense networks, the Internet spread to international academic platforms and then to the public in the 1990s, greatly affecting the global economy, society, and culture.
Due to the dot-com boom, stable monetary policy, and reduced social welfare spending, the 1990s saw the longest economic expansion in modern U.S.. history.
Beginning in 1994, the U.S.. entered into the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), prompting trade among the U.S., Canada, and Mexico to soar.On September 11, 2001, Al-Qaeda terrorists struck the World Trade Center in New York City and the Pentagon near Washington, D.C., killing nearly 3,000 people.
In response, the United States launched the War on Terror, which included a war in Afghanistan and the 2003–11 Iraq War.Government policy designed to promote affordable housing, widespread failures in corporate and regulatory governance, and historically low interest rates set by the Federal Reserve led to the mid-2000s housing bubble, which culminated with the 2008 financial crisis, the nation's largest economic contraction since the Great Depression.. Barack Obama, the first African-American and multiracial president, was elected in 2008 amid the crisis, and subsequently passed stimulus measures and the Dodd–Frank Act in an attempt to mitigate its negative effects and ensure there would not be a repeat of the crisis.
In 2010, the Obama administration passed the Affordable Care Act, which made the most sweeping reforms to the nation's healthcare system in nearly five decades, including mandates, subsidies and insurance exchanges.American forces in Iraq were withdrawn in large numbers in 2009 and 2010, and the war in the region was declared formally over in December 2011.. But months earlier, Operation Neptune Spear led to the death of the leader of Al-Qaeda in Pakistan.
In the presidential election of 2016, Republican Donald Trump was elected as the 45th president of the United States, making him both the oldest and wealthiest person elected president in the country's history.. On January 20, 2020, the first case of COVID-19 in the United States was confirmed.
Over the course of the next five months, the disease has affected over 3 million Americans and killed over 130,000 people.. The United States is, by far, the country with the most cases of COVID-19 as of June 10, 2020.


== Geography, climate, and environment ==

The 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia occupy a combined area of 3,119,884.69 square miles (8,080,464.3 km2).
Of this area, 2,959,064.44 square miles (7,663,941.7 km2) is contiguous land, composing 83.65% of total U.S.. land area.
Hawaii, occupying an archipelago in the central Pacific, southwest of North America, is 10,931 square miles (28,311 km2) in area.. The populated territories of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, and U.S.
Virgin Islands together cover 9,185 square miles (23,789 km2).. Measured by only land area, the United States is third in size behind Russia and China, just ahead of Canada.The United States is the world's third- or fourth-largest nation by total area (land and water), ranking behind Russia and Canada and nearly equal to China.
The ranking varies depending on how two territories disputed by China and India are counted, and how the total size of the United States is measured.The coastal plain of the Atlantic seaboard gives way further inland to deciduous forests and the rolling hills of the Piedmont.. The Appalachian Mountains divide the eastern seaboard from the Great Lakes and the grasslands of the Midwest.
The Mississippi–Missouri River, the world's fourth longest river system, runs mainly north–south through the heart of the country.. The flat, fertile prairie of the Great Plains stretches to the west, interrupted by a highland region in the southeast.

The Rocky Mountains, west of the Great Plains, extend north to south across the country, peaking around 14,000 feet (4,300 m) in Colorado.
Farther west are the rocky Great Basin and deserts such as the Chihuahua and Mojave.. The Sierra Nevada and Cascade mountain ranges run close to the Pacific coast, both ranges reaching altitudes higher than 14,000 feet (4,300 m).
The lowest and highest points in the contiguous United States are in the state of California, and only about 84 miles (135 km) apart.. At an elevation of 20,310 feet (6,190.5 m), Alaska's Denali is the highest peak in the country and in North America.
Active volcanoes are common throughout Alaska's Alexander and Aleutian Islands, and Hawaii consists of volcanic islands.. The supervolcano underlying Yellowstone National Park in the Rockies is the continent's largest volcanic feature.The United States, with its large size and geographic variety, includes most climate types.
To the east of the 100th meridian, the climate ranges from humid continental in the north to humid subtropical in the south.. The Great Plains west of the 100th meridian are semi-arid.
Much of the Western mountains have an alpine climate.. The climate is arid in the Great Basin, desert in the Southwest, Mediterranean in coastal California, and oceanic in coastal Oregon and Washington and southern Alaska.
Most of Alaska is subarctic or polar.. Hawaii and the southern tip of Florida are tropical, as well as its territories in the Caribbean and the Pacific.
States bordering the Gulf of Mexico are prone to hurricanes, and most of the world's tornadoes occur in the country, mainly in Tornado Alley areas in the Midwest and South.. Overall, the United States has the world's most violent weather, receiving more high-impact extreme weather incidents than any other country in the world.


=== Wildlife and conservation ===

The U.S.
ecology is megadiverse: about 17,000 species of vascular plants occur in the contiguous United States and Alaska, and more than 1,800 species of flowering plants are found in Hawaii, few of which occur on the mainland.. The United States is home to 428 mammal species, 784 bird species, 311 reptile species, and 295 amphibian species, as well as about 91,000 insect species.There are 62 national parks and hundreds of other federally managed parks, forests, and wilderness areas.
Altogether, the government owns about 28% of the country's land area, mostly in the western states.. Most of this land is protected, though some is leased for oil and gas drilling, mining, logging, or cattle ranching, and about .86% is used for military purposes.Environmental issues include debates on oil and nuclear energy, dealing with air and water pollution, the economic costs of protecting wildlife, logging and deforestation, and international responses to global warming.
The most prominent environmental agency is the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), created by presidential order in 1970.. The idea of wilderness has shaped the management of public lands since 1964, with the Wilderness Act.
The Endangered Species Act of 1973 is intended to protect threatened and endangered species and their habitats, which are monitored by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.


== Demographics ==


=== Population ===

The U.S.. Census Bureau officially estimated the country's population to be 328,239,523 as of July 1, 2019.
In addition, the Census Bureau provides a continuously updated U.S.. Population Clock that approximates the latest population of the 50 states and District of Columbia based on the Bureau's most recent demographic trends.
According to the clock, on May 23, 2020, the U.S.. population exceeded 329 million residents, with a net gain of one person every 19 seconds, or about 4,547 people per day.
The United States is the third most populous nation in the world, after China and India.. In 2018 the median age of the United States population was 38.1 years.In 2018, there were almost 90 million immigrants and U.S.-born children of immigrants (second-generation Americans) in the United States, accounting for 28% of the overall U.S.
population.. The United States has a very diverse population; 37 ancestry groups have more than one million members.
German Americans are the largest ethnic group (more than 50 million)—followed by Irish Americans (circa 37 million), Mexican Americans (circa 31 million) and English Americans (circa 28 million).White Americans (mostly European ancestry) are the largest racial group at 73.1% of the population; African Americans are the nation's largest racial minority and third-largest ancestry group.. Asian Americans are the country's second-largest racial minority; the three largest Asian American ethnic groups are Chinese Americans, Filipino Americans, and Indian Americans.
The largest American community with European ancestry is German Americans, which consists of more than 14% of the total population.. In 2010, the U.S.
population included an estimated 5.2 million people with some American Indian or Alaska Native ancestry (2.9 million exclusively of such ancestry) and 1.2 million with some native Hawaiian or Pacific island ancestry (0.5 million exclusively).. The census counted more than 19 million people of "Some Other Race" who were "unable to identify with any" of its five official race categories in 2010, more than 18.5 million (97%) of whom are of Hispanic ethnicity.Minorities, defined by the Census Bureau as all individuals aside from non-Hispanic, non-multiracial whites, constituted 37% of the population in 2012.
More than 50% of infants less than a year old are members of minority groups.. These groups are projected to collectively make up a majority of the population by 2044.In 2017, out of the U.S.
foreign-born population, some 45% (20.7 million) were naturalized citizens, 27% (12.3 million) were lawful permanent residents (including many eligible to become citizens), 6% (2.2 million) were temporary lawful residents, and 23% (10.5 million) were unauthorized immigrants.. Among current living immigrants to the U.S., the top five countries of birth are Mexico, China, India, the Philippines and El Salvador.
Until 2017 and 2018, the United States led the word in refugee resettlement for decades, admitted more refugees than the rest of the world combined.. From fiscal year 1980 until 2017, 55% of refugees came from Asia, 27% from Europe, 13% from Africa, and 4% from Latin America.A 2017 Gallup poll concluded that 4.5% of adult Americans identified as LGBT with 5.1% of women identifying as LGBT, compared with 3.9% of men.
The highest percentage came from the District of Columbia (10%), while the lowest state was North Dakota at 1.7%.A 2017 United Nations report projected that the U.S.. would be one of nine countries in which world population growth through 2050 would be concentrated.
A 2020 U.S.. Census Bureau report projected the population of the country could be anywhere between 320 million and 447 million by 2060, depending on the rate of in-migration; in all projected scenarios, a lower fertility rate and increases in life expectancy would result in an aging population.The population growth of Hispanic and Latino Americans is a major demographic trend.
The 50.5 million Americans of Hispanic descent are identified as sharing a distinct "ethnicity" by the Census Bureau; 64% of Hispanic Americans are of Mexican descent.. Between 2000 and 2010, the country's Hispanic population increased 43% while the non-Hispanic population rose just 4.9%.The United States has an annual birth rate of 13 per 1,000, which is five births per 1,000 below the world average.
Its population growth rate is positive at 0.7%, higher than that of many developed nations.. In fiscal year 2017, more than a million immigrants (most of whom entered through family reunification) were granted legal residence.
In absolute numbers, the number of foreign-born U.S.. residents is at a record high (44.4 million in 2017); however as a proportion of the overall population, the current foreign-born share (13.6% of the total population) is lower than the share at the peak in 1890 (14.8% of the total population).About 82% of Americans live in urban areas (including suburbs); about half of those reside in cities with populations over 50,000.
In 2008, 273 incorporated municipalities had populations over 100,000, nine cities had more than one million residents, and four cities had over two million (namely New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Houston).. Estimates for the year 2018 show that 53 metropolitan areas have populations greater than one million.
Many metros in the South, Southwest and West grew significantly between 2010 and 2018.. The Dallas and Houston metros increased by more than a million people, while the Washington, D.C., Miami, Atlanta, and Phoenix metros all grew by more than 500,000 people.


=== Language ===

English (specifically, American English) is the de facto national language of the United States.
Although there is no official language at the federal level, some laws—such as U.S.. naturalization requirements—standardize English.
In 2010, about 230 million, or 80% of the population aged five years and older, spoke only English at home.. 12% of the population speaks Spanish at home, making it the second most common language.
Spanish is also the most widely taught second language.Both Hawaiian and English are official languages in Hawaii.. In addition to English, Alaska recognizes twenty official Native languages, and South Dakota recognizes Sioux.
While neither has an official language, New Mexico has laws providing for the use of both English and Spanish, as Louisiana does for English and French.. Other states, such as California, mandate the publication of Spanish versions of certain government documents including court forms.Several insular territories grant official recognition to their native languages, along with English: Samoan is officially recognized by American Samoa and Chamorro is an official language of Guam.
Both Carolinian and Chamorro have official recognition in the Northern Mariana Islands.
Spanish is an official language of Puerto Rico and is more widely spoken than English there.The most widely taught foreign languages in the United States, in terms of enrollment numbers from kindergarten through university undergraduate education, are Spanish (around 7.2 million students), French (1.5 million), and German (500,000).. Other commonly taught languages include Latin, Japanese, ASL, Italian, and Chinese.
18% of all Americans claim to speak both English and another language.


=== Religion ===

The First Amendment of the U.S.. Constitution guarantees the free exercise of religion and forbids Congress from passing laws respecting its establishment.
In a 2013 survey, 56% of Americans said religion played a "very important role in their lives," a far higher figure than that of any other Western nation.
In a 2009 Gallup poll, 42% of Americans said they attended church weekly or almost weekly; the figures ranged from a low of 23% in Vermont to a high of 63% in Mississippi.In a 2014 survey, 70.6% of adults in the United States identified themselves as Christians; Protestants accounted for 46.5%, while Roman Catholics, at 20.8%, formed the largest single Christian group.. In 2014, 5.9% of the U.S.
adult population claimed a non-Christian religion.. These include Judaism (1.9%), Islam (0.9%), Hinduism (0.7%), and Buddhism (0.7%).
The survey also reported that 22.8% of Americans described themselves as agnostic, atheist or simply having no religion—up from 8.2% in 1990.. There are also Unitarian Universalist, Scientologist, Baha'i, Sikh, Jain, Shinto, Zoroastrian, Confucian, Satanist, Taoist, Druid, Native American, Afro-American, traditional African, Wiccan, Gnostic, humanist and deist communities.Protestantism is the largest Christian religious grouping in the United States, accounting for almost half of all Americans.
Baptists collectively form the largest branch of Protestantism at 15.4%, and the Southern Baptist Convention is the largest individual Protestant denomination at 5.3% of the U.S.. population.
Apart from Baptists, other Protestant categories include nondenominational Protestants, Methodists, Pentecostals, unspecified Protestants, Lutherans, Presbyterians, Congregationalists, other Reformed, Episcopalians/Anglicans, Quakers, Adventists, Holiness, Christian fundamentalists, Anabaptists, Pietists, and multiple others.As with other Western countries, the U.S.. is becoming less religious.
Irreligion is growing rapidly among Americans under 30.. Polls show that overall American confidence in organized religion has been declining since the mid to late 1980s, and that younger Americans, in particular, are becoming increasingly irreligious.
In a 2012 study, the Protestant share of the U.S.. population had dropped to 48%, thus ending its status as religious category of the majority for the first time.
Americans with no religion have 1.7 children compared to 2.2 among Christians.. The unaffiliated are less likely to marry with 37% marrying compared to 52% of Christians.The Bible Belt is an informal term for a region in the Southern United States in which socially conservative evangelical Protestantism is a significant part of the culture and Christian church attendance across the denominations is generally higher than the nation's average.
By contrast, religion plays the least important role in New England and in the Western United States.


=== Family structure ===

As of 2018, 52% of Americans age 15 and over were married, 6% were widowed, 10% were divorced, and 32% had never been married.. Women now work mostly outside the home and receive the majority of bachelor's degrees.The U.S.
teenage pregnancy rate is 26.5 per 1,000 women.. The rate has declined by 57% since 1991.
Abortion is legal throughout the country.. Abortion rates, currently 241 per 1,000 live births and 15 per 1,000 women aged 15–44, are falling but remain higher than most Western nations.
In 2013, the average age at first birth was 26 and 41% of births were to unmarried women.The total fertility rate in 2016 was 1820.5 births per 1000 women.. Adoption in the United States is common and relatively easy from a legal point of view (compared to other Western countries).
As of 2001, with more than 127,000 adoptions, the U.S.. accounted for nearly half of the total number of adoptions worldwide.
Same-sex marriage is legal nationwide, and it is legal for same-sex couples to adopt.. Polygamy is illegal throughout the U.S.In 2019, the U.S.
had the world's highest rate of children living in single-parent households.


=== Health ===

The United States had a life expectancy of 78.6 years at birth in 2017, which was the third year of declines in life expectancy following decades of continuous increase.. The recent decline, primarily among the age group 25 to 64, is largely due to sharp increases in the drug overdose and suicide rates; the country has one of the highest suicide rates among wealthy countries.
Life expectancy was highest among Asians and Hispanics and lowest among blacks.. According to CDC and Census Bureau data, deaths from suicide, alcohol and drug overdoses hit record highs in 2017.Increasing obesity in the United States and health improvements elsewhere contributed to lowering the country's rank in life expectancy from 11th in the world in 1987, to 42nd in 2007, and as of 2017 the country had the lowest life expectancy among Japan, Canada, Australia, the UK, and seven countries of western Europe.
Obesity rates have more than doubled in the last 30 years and are the highest in the industrialized world.. Approximately one-third of the adult population is obese and an additional third is overweight.
Obesity-related type 2 diabetes is considered epidemic by health care professionals.In 2010, coronary artery disease, lung cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, and traffic accidents caused the most years of life lost in the U.S.. Low back pain, depression, musculoskeletal disorders, neck pain, and anxiety caused the most years lost to disability.
The most harmful risk factors were poor diet, tobacco smoking, obesity, high blood pressure, high blood sugar, physical inactivity, and alcohol use.. Alzheimer's disease, drug abuse, kidney disease, cancer, and falls caused the most additional years of life lost over their age-adjusted 1990 per-capita rates.
U.S.. teenage pregnancy and abortion rates are substantially higher than in other Western nations, especially among blacks and Hispanics.Health-care coverage in the United States is a combination of public and private efforts and is not universal.
In 2017, 12.2% of the population did not carry health insurance.. The subject of uninsured and underinsured Americans is a major political issue.
Federal legislation, passed in early 2010, roughly halved the uninsured share of the population, though the bill and its ultimate effect are issues of controversy.. The U.S.
health-care system far outspends any other nation, measured both in per capita spending and as percentage of GDP.. At the same time, the U.S.
is a global leader in medical innovation.


=== Education ===

American public education is operated by state and local governments, regulated by the United States Department of Education through restrictions on federal grants.. In most states, children are required to attend school from the age of six or seven (generally, kindergarten or first grade) until they turn 18 (generally bringing them through twelfth grade, the end of high school); some states allow students to leave school at 16 or 17.About 12% of children are enrolled in parochial or nonsectarian private schools.
Just over 2% of children are homeschooled.. The U.S.
spends more on education per student than any nation in the world, spending more than $11,000 per elementary student in 2010 and more than $12,000 per high school student.. Some 80% of U.S.
college students attend public universities.Of Americans 25 and older, 84.6% graduated from high school, 52.6% attended some college, 27.2% earned a bachelor's degree, and 9.6% earned graduate degrees.. The basic literacy rate is approximately 99%.
The United Nations assigns the United States an Education Index of 0.97, tying it for 12th in the world.The United States has many private and public institutions of higher education.. The majority of the world's top universities, as listed by various ranking organizations, are in the U.S.
There are also local community colleges with generally more open admission policies, shorter academic programs, and lower tuition.
In 2018, U21, a network of research-intensive universities, ranked the United States first in the world for breadth and quality of higher education, and 15th when GDP was a factor.. As for public expenditures on higher education, the U.S.
trails some other OECD nations but spends more per student than the OECD average, and more than all nations in combined public and private spending.. As of 2018, student loan debt exceeded 1.5 trillion dollars.


== Government and politics ==

The United States is a federal republic of 50 states, a federal district, five territories and several uninhabited island possessions.
It is the world's oldest surviving federation.. It is a federal republic and a representative democracy, "in which majority rule is tempered by minority rights protected by law." For 2018, the U.S.
ranked 25th on the Democracy Index.. On Transparency International's 2019 Corruption Perceptions Index its public sector position deteriorated from a score of 76 in 2015 to 69 in 2019.In the American federalist system, citizens are usually subject to three levels of government: federal, state, and local.
The local government's duties are commonly split between county and municipal governments.. In almost all cases, executive and legislative officials are elected by a plurality vote of citizens by district.
The government is regulated by a system of checks and balances defined by the U.S.
Constitution, which serves as the country's supreme legal document.. The original text of the Constitution establishes the structure and responsibilities of the federal government and its relationship with the individual states.
Article One protects the right to the "great writ" of habeas corpus.. The Constitution has been amended 27 times; the first ten amendments, which make up the Bill of Rights, and the Fourteenth Amendment form the central basis of Americans' individual rights.
All laws and governmental procedures are subject to judicial review and any law ruled by the courts to be in violation of the Constitution is voided.. The principle of judicial review, not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution, was established by the Supreme Court in Marbury v.
Madison (1803) in a decision handed down by Chief Justice John Marshall.The federal government comprises three branches:

Legislative: The bicameral Congress, made up of the Senate and the House of Representatives, makes federal law, declares war, approves treaties, has the power of the purse, and has the power of impeachment, by which it can remove sitting members of the government.
Executive: The president is the commander-in-chief of the military, can veto legislative bills before they become law (subject to Congressional override), and appoints the members of the Cabinet (subject to Senate approval) and other officers, who administer and enforce federal laws and policies.
Judicial: The Supreme Court and lower federal courts, whose judges are appointed by the president with Senate approval, interpret laws and overturn those they find unconstitutional.The House of Representatives has 435 voting members, each representing a congressional district for a two-year term.. House seats are apportioned among the states by population.
Each state then draws single-member districts to conform with the census apportionment.. The District of Columbia and the five major U.S.
territories each have one member of Congress—these members are not allowed to vote.The Senate has 100 members with each state having two senators, elected at-large to six-year terms; one-third of Senate seats are up for election every two years.. The District of Columbia and the five major U.S.
territories do not have senators.. The president serves a four-year term and may be elected to the office no more than twice.
The president is not elected by direct vote, but by an indirect electoral college system in which the determining votes are apportioned to the states and the District of Columbia.. The Supreme Court, led by the chief justice of the United States, has nine members, who serve for life.The state governments are structured in a roughly similar fashion, though Nebraska has a unicameral legislature.
The governor (chief executive) of each state is directly elected.. Some state judges and cabinet officers are appointed by the governors of the respective states, while others are elected by popular vote.


=== Political divisions ===

The 50 states are the principal administrative divisions in the country.
These are subdivided into counties or county equivalents and further divided into municipalities.. The District of Columbia is a federal district that contains the capital of the United States, Washington, D.C.
The states and the District of Columbia choose the president of the United States.. Each state has presidential electors equal to the number of their representatives and senators in Congress; the District of Columbia has three (because of the 23rd Amendment).
Territories of the United States such as Puerto Rico do not have presidential electors, and so people in those territories cannot vote for the president.

The United States also observes tribal sovereignty of the American Indian nations to a limited degree, as it does with the states' sovereignty.. American Indians are U.S.
citizens and tribal lands are subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S.. Congress and the federal courts.
Like the states they have a great deal of autonomy, but also like the states, tribes are not allowed to make war, engage in their own foreign relations, or print and issue currency.Citizenship is granted at birth in all states, the District of Columbia, and all major U.S.. territories except American Samoa.


=== Parties and elections ===

The United States has operated under a two-party system for most of its history.
For elective offices at most levels, state-administered primary elections choose the major party nominees for subsequent general elections.. Since the general election of 1856, the major parties have been the Democratic Party, founded in 1824, and the Republican Party, founded in 1854.
Since the Civil War, only one third-party presidential candidate—former president Theodore Roosevelt, running as a Progressive in 1912—has won as much as 20% of the popular vote.. The president and vice president are elected by the Electoral College.In American political culture, the center-right Republican Party is considered "conservative" and the center-left Democratic Party is considered "liberal." The states of the Northeast and West Coast and some of the Great Lakes states, known as "blue states," are relatively liberal.
The "red states" of the South and parts of the Great Plains and Rocky Mountains are relatively conservative.
Republican Donald Trump, the winner of the 2016 presidential election, is serving as the 45th president of the United States.. Leadership in the Senate includes Republican vice president Mike Pence, Republican president pro tempore Chuck Grassley, Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer.
Leadership in the House includes Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, and Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy.

In the 116th United States Congress, the House of Representatives is controlled by the Democratic Party and the Senate is controlled by the Republican Party, giving the U.S.. a split Congress.
The Senate consists of 53 Republicans and 45 Democrats with two Independents who caucus with the Democrats; the House consists of 233 Democrats, 196 Republicans, and 1 Libertarian.. Of state governors, there are 26 Republicans and 24 Democrats.
Among the D.C.. mayor and the five territorial governors, there are two Republicans, one Democrat, one New Progressive, and two Independents.


=== Foreign relations ===

The United States has an established structure of foreign relations.
It is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.. New York City is home to the United Nations Headquarters.
Almost all countries have embassies in Washington, D.C., and many have consulates around the country.. Likewise, nearly all nations host American diplomatic missions.
However, Iran, North Korea, Bhutan, and the Republic of China (Taiwan) do not have formal diplomatic relations with the United States (although the U.S.. still maintains unofficial relations with Bhutan and Taiwan).
It is a member of the G7, G20, and OECD.
The United States has a "Special Relationship" with the United Kingdom and strong ties with India, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Japan, South Korea, Israel, and several European Union countries, including France, Italy, Germany, Spain and Poland.. It works closely with fellow NATO members on military and security issues and with its neighbors through the Organization of American States and free trade agreements such as the trilateral North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico.